---
video_title: "NOTÍCIAS DA MANHÃ: Defesa de Vorcaro se reúne com Mendonça e fala sobre delação | CAFÉ COM A GAZETA"
video_id: C9a8iZo0_1Y
channel_name: "Gazeta do Povo"
channel_id: UCWdGgeyOnCOGnvhNdbVl1dQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C9a8iZo0_1Y
video_date: 2026-03-19T14:51:28+00:00
video_description: |
  🔥 POLÊMICA na CPI do Crime Organizado! Revelações explosivas colocam em xeque os bastidores do escândalo que levou à queda do Banco Master.
  
  Durante depoimento nesta quarta-feira (18), o gestor de fundos Vladimir Timerman afirmou que o ex-controlador Daniel Vorcaro não seria o verdadeiro responsável pelas decisões do banco. Segundo ele, Vorcaro teria sido apenas um “pau-mandado”, atuando como rosto público enquanto os verdadeiros controladores permaneciam ocultos.
  
  💥 Um dos nomes citados foi o do empresário Nelson Tanure, apontado como possível figura central na hierarquia por trás do esquema. As declarações levantam novas suspeitas sobre conexões políticas, interesses ocultos e o que realmente aconteceu nos bastidores do Banco Master.
  
  📉 O caso pode ganhar novos desdobramentos e ampliar ainda mais o escândalo financeiro que já abalou o mercado.
  
  👉 Assista agora e entenda quem realmente pode estar por trás dessa história!
  
  OUTROS TEMAS:
  
  📌OMISSÕES DE PAULO GONET (PGR) GERA PEDIDO DE DEMISSÃO
  
  📌AUMENTO DA PETROBRÁS REVOLTA CAMINHONEIROS, QUE AMEAÇAM GREVE
  
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀  
  
  📢 SEMANA DO CONSUMIDOR GAZETA DO POVO! 💰
  Garanta acesso à informação independente por apenas R$1,90/mês nos 6 primeiros meses. Acesse já: https://gazpovo.com/ABh3DL1a
  
  📖 FRANKENSTEIN GRÁTIS PARA BAIXAR! ⚡
  O clássico da literatura que está em alta no streaming.
  Baixe gratuitamente a nova versão traduzida da obra de Mary Shelley. Acesse em: :https://gazpovo.com/_1O6ZOtv 
  
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀  
  
  ☕ O Café com a Gazeta do Povo é o programa matinal que abre o dia com informação, análise e opinião sobre os principais assuntos do momento. Em um formato leve e dinâmico, os jornalistas da Gazeta comentam o que está em destaque no noticiário político, econômico e cultural, ajudando o público a começar a manhã bem informado e com contexto.  
  
  *Com apresentação dos jornalistas Carla Lima e Lucas Saba, o Café levanta a bola para o timaço de comentaristas, formado por Cristina Graeml, Paulo Briguet, Anne Dias Jeffrey Chiquini, Jorge Serrão, Fabiana Barroso, Julia Lucy e Flavio Morgenstern.*  
  
  Além da cobertura dos acontecimentos em tempo real. A, as "breaking news" estarão na pauta diária do Café.
  
  🎤Apresentação: Carla Lima e Lucas Saba
  📞Produção:  Monica Rodrigues de Amorim 
  💻Assistente de produção: Gabriel Fidalgo Lopes Duarte
  📹Operação de vídeo: Lucas Lencin e BRN Estudio
  ✉️ cafe@gazetadopovo.com.br
  
  👁️Conheça a programação da Gazeta do Povo https://bit.ly/3XHsYIH 
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀   
  
  CANAL NO WHATSAPP! Receba o melhor dos conteúdos da Gazeta em nosso canal no Whats. São reportagens, artigos, ebooks, áudios, vídeos e muito mais. Acesse o link e ative o sininho de notificações ao lado do nome do canal: https://www.whatsapp.com/channel/0029Va59gOS4NVikz4MWzI0p
---
Hey, good morning, welcome to Quinta Feira, 19th March, starting with another coffee with the Gazeta do Povo, your second daily program of the summer 6th of the 7th, 10 hours a day, as much as the information and analysis in the best way to the Gazeta do Povo, say to make a journalism with credibility and independence that defend your freedom of expression. I want to ask you to leave your like, to subscribe to our channel, remembering that this program is transmitted in a way, simultaneously in two of our channels, our main channel of the Gazeta do Povo and the Gazeta do Povo stars and put here where you are, we watch what the state and what the municipality has, we have an international audience, look, Elizabeth has already left the message here, Maria Teresa, Paula Pereira, Levy Gomes, Eriberto, Marcelo, Linda, José Antonio, everyone here, with us, this fifth party always thanks to the affection of your audience and I want to ask you too if you have any criticism, a suggestion from Palta, come to our Cafe, the Gazeta do Povo, point to point to our team, our production is of oil, many of the Paltes that we have here in our program were you who sent through this email. Well, and now we have news for you that we are watching, it is the Gazeta do Povo club that has no month of that we have already launched a absolute success, absolute absolute support independent journalism, it is already a member of the Gazeta do Povo, just you, DC, it has already been a member, you see it appears here on your screen, with two clicks you become a member and you can ask, Lucas, what are the advantages of becoming a member? Well, you are directed to an exclusive exclusive of the presenters, our commentaries, columnists, send exclusive videos, there are also here in our project you have a comment priority, look, today we already have two that have become the Rito Arnold and your colleague, here the Bicudo, eight, three, seven, nine have become members of the Gazeta do Povo, which is more helpful to remember, here there is no federal green and no one was sent by law and so we depend 100% of you and try too, the traditional signature of our newspaper with more than 100 and seven years of history, of fights and of glories that you already know, look, the rafa put here for you six months, a real 90 per month is the consumer week, so that you are a great camera point of your solar cell to this one that is here or so access Gazeta do Povo.com.br barra of the law, it's legal, the given ones following here we have the day's handshake, the defense of Daniel Vorcaro is the man is with everything and gathered with Andre Mendoza, I had said that he changed the lawyer's script that I defended because he has a pre-media, the end of a billionaire who doesn't want to be very time-pressed, the man has security, has a job, has a kitchen boss, he won't be very time-pressed, right? So he has promised to deliver everyone from the government's fault, then there's the PT, the rebound, that there's nothing to do with this anymore, we already know that in his cell phone, in his agenda, he had at least the president of the deputies camera, which he took only 22 million, which one of you was not in the bank, he asked 22 million, they were going to press there to get the money in the hour, there's the president of Sanado Federal of the Vio Colombre, there's the president of the Republic of Luiz in the cell phone, that was found with Daniel Vorcaro, outside the official agenda, why outside the official agenda, why didn't he give the publicism to that? If he told you because there's something wrong, isn't it? And there's also a Senator Sir Nogueira, who is the story good enough to tell, when we put here that they were friends, Sir Nogueira, Senator Pélo Piauí, he gave me a note, if I'm not this sir, what does he mean? Second, a Brazilian strategic scientist and BG, 11,000 sirs, therefore it may be that it's not me, right on the next day, he made new documents that they were trying, which was this sir, he said everything is fine, I'm not going to get anything, this is Brazil, let's do the next, we have the handshake of the town's Gazeta, the civil delaccent of Daniel Vorcaro, delivering to everyone, look at his screen, we have, according to reports that the case in the conversations was evident, the disposal of Vorcaro in dilating all the scheme, presenting not only information already known by authorities, but also a set of proof documents that would pass significantly, the material learned in different phases of operations, including data that would be stored in cell phones and address linked to the bank, we have another one from the Federal Police, can put people on the screen talking about press, it's good that it's said, it was more of five cell phones and more of ten more learned computers, Daniel Vorcaro, the interrogation of inquire occurred on the same day that the General Director of the Federal Police, this man who is here in the screen, Andrei Rodrigues, he reported that the corporation can be suffering from the press by the cause of the advance of the investigations, there is no doubt that it is suffering from the press, because there is a lot of big involvement, open the ASP, we are going to investigate and do our work until the end, we will not be intimidated by anyone, because whoever wants to be, the firm Andrei Rodrigues, this man who is here, in an event of the Brazilian Federation of the Banks, the Feebraba here in the capital, Paulista, so evidently, as we already imagined, the Federal Police, in the figure of the General Director, Andrei Rodrigues, he is suffering a lot of pressure, because Daniel Vorcaro, the banker who was here in the previous image, will be there, and Brasilia stopped, we have here a deputator who said there is no vote in Brazil, because everyone is in the hair, looking at what and who Daniel Vorcaro will deliver, so Brasilia, however, is stopped, so much camera, how much is the Senate and worse, we are at six months of elections, where the Brazilian goes to the Zurnas, to the State Deputats, the Federal, two government senators, possibly a new head of state, then everyone is guarding, well, I want to give a good good day to the George Serrão, who will comment this issue, Serrão was doing, we did a calculation here, today Serrão is with his colleague, we did a calculation here in Serrão, about how much is the person already taken from Vorcaro, the president of the camera with his cousin, we were talking about this, as Americans, follow the demand, or they already follow the money, because it is difficult, if I am a politician, let's break my bank account, I am a person, I will receive my daughter, my wife, my mother, my father, my uncle, my cousin, so it is this term that has to be this term, so we have the Hugo Mota who received 22 millions, the queen of it, for a price, she got in the bank, look, there is a dream to buy a company, people said, well, here 22 millions, then the exchange of morals, the wife of the moral exchange, 129 million Serrão, in three years, what gives 3.7 million, then the queen of the moral exchange, with the sons, or a brother in the family barbecue, and she sold a code of ethics that cost 22 millions, 35 pages of almost 700,000 for pages, which also gives 3.4 million, that is, the family took 7 million and a half, almost for months, good morning Serrão, good welcome and has a new leadership in the championship, see? Well, it is the Saudações Lucas Saba, the Saudações, my people of the town of the town, this case master, until who is affectionate, is in the skin, the parade is sinister, by his operandi, Daniel Vorcaro produced and has documents, proving who his scheme was benefited, so if he really wants to tell everything he knows, he will have a name when someone received, how he received, because everything has very well-designed strategies, not in the powerful political, difficult, he will vote his name himself to appear, his current account, for the money entry, no, he will use a orange or a parent, or a company, even a ghost company, there are several there in the market, to receive, to make the entry of the money that comes from the master scheme, that's this play, so if Daniel Vorcaro really has a disposition to reveal all this, the public, the bananian, corrupt, the piniquim, comes down, now we have to be always skeptical in relation to that, if Vorcaro really reveals he can be sure, he will not compromise the power of the judiciary, they will find a way to justify that all the businesses that they have run with or the judiciary, especially the federal court, or with the people linked to him, this business is happening inside the legalism, inside everything that is possible to happen to not see a punishment, and possibly something is caught in control will give him the way to annul that proof, ok? So it's good that we have this movie's script that is very predictable, now there are people who have not so much power there is no, for example, the judiciary and then they can experiment with the flavor of the denon of Vorcaro, and this amyassah, which is making the call, pombarolo in the environment, in the face of corruption in the back of the Brasilia, everyone is favored, repeat, it's in the head, even if he has to head, in this story, the bananian scabrosa, who has, even if it's very investigated, has the group of the turma, what is the turma that was used to Vorcaro for repressions? Vorcaro, the defense of the Nega, have the men who made cybernetic operations the defense of Vorcaro also Nega, Vorcaro would not have practiced violence or, generally, the threat against anyone, defense of him also negates all this, and now this amyassah father, Vorcaro can open the mouth and tell everything that knows about everyone, difficult to believe in this, he will be like this, who is convinced to be, and who is enough enough for the delay to allow him to have a level in his only, more adiant, but the situation, in this case, is very serious. And it's very curious, we see now the general director of the federal police in a federal federal event, of banks, saying that no one will be intimidated, that the police will not have fear of anything, and will investigate everything with all the rigor. Well, it's what it is expected of the police, but when it comes to an event of the federal bank, the bank's federal bank has large banks that were mega-prejudicated by the Nega, Vorcaro. Let's remember well, the case master, he generated almost a systemic hybrid, of the banks in Brazil, of the Brazilian bank. There had to be a gigantic door in the deep garden of credit, of the banks, which they didn't want to do that, and I already told you, this door can be very large of what they are saying. The rumble can also be the double of what they are saying. Who are serious sources, say that this rumble can be reached in the 100-100-B house, which would force the banks to contribute with more than six years, it is the normal contribution to the deep garden of credit, anticipatedly. So, there is heavy pressure, heavy pressure, who goes to the event of the banks, and I think there is no pressure, or wants to say that there is no pressure, there is heavy pressure, the game is broken. Now, you have to investigate where the money of the bank is in Dubai. This point has to be clarified. Who contributed effectively with all this scheme of bank and was with him, which are the other authorities of Brazilian fiscalisers and took a large bank to not open the mouth especially the wrong that has already happened a long time ago. They have to identify and punish these people. There is no selective risk in this case. The fiscalization failed, but it failed due to incompetence. It failed strategically, because it was black, taking the money to fail in the fiscalization. So, it is this Brazil of corruption that is expected to be sold. But it is not a joke. The lawyer denounced Pechinho Pequeno, or the people who are not so powerful, to appear that he is telling everything, he is telling everything of nothing, Lukas Saba. Until now, what we know is that the black has a lot of money, and now, to understand what can be said even more in this story. It is very interesting. We also know George Serrão from the personal opinion. It was like this in my room, it was like this in the oil. When they do a premium-dialing agreement, let's say, if Robo 10 lives and develops 5, or when much, evidently nobody devolve everything that was brought up by the public. In this case, a scheme of pyramid was built, it built a base of the poor, nothing, and promised there return much more than the price of the markets in banks here in Brazil. And there is another question. The audience has put here with the reason, the story of the scenario. The scenario was to then a legal ambassador from Daniel Vorcaro, because it was a triangle. So, Daniel Vorcaro, who was the owner of the bank, who sent him everything. There, on the other hand, he had a Zetel Fabian, his owner, who paid for all the dark services in the bank. And on the other hand, there was a Chicago, which Chicago, for those who don't know, is a period that gives to the Aluguel ambassador. All were arrested. Chicago, a professional Aluguel ambassador, a guy who his profession is taking lives. He was in a few hours arrested and tried to counter his life. Difficult to believe in this, as you say here, the Chicago, he suicide, he suicide, or he was suicide. In Brazil, from Celso Daniel, where the archivist, who is a man of archivists, lives is very big. So, this issue is a story. The federal police he died on the battlefield of a individual cell of the federal police. And then, who will investigate the death of the Chicago, is the federal police who had no competition to leave the living room. And the body. And the head of the obit. And the velory. And then, no one knows what the guy wants. Simply, it was a what you say, a archivist, completely, because you don't know absolutely nothing of this Lord. And he had a lot to say. So, let's keep this deal of Daniel Vurkáro pretends to the Brazil, especially in the time of the election. And who is in Paris, Brazil, with the town of the capital Paranáense, there are Anidias and Carla Lima Good morning Carla, welcome, everything okay? All right, Lucaz, a hug for you for the Serhão, we also start there more one day. A Thursday, usually Curitiba and São Paulo have a very similar climate, right? And here, it's raining a lot, right? But it's the following. Here, inside the studio, we are in the climate to know the details of everything that is happening in the Brazilian politics. And I'm not alone with Andes, I'm with Chiquini too, Anidias and Carla. Come on, Cam. Chiquini, welcome. Every time they say that Chuveta is here, I remember that audio. Are you laughing there? Are you laughing there? Here Chuveta. The world, Luca, Serhão, very good here with you. Well, here it's not. But here in the studio, everything is without a hat, but we will enter this area of this pre-made dilation, I want to know all the the best and the best of this situation, let's start then, Ladies first. What is the white dog? It's the white dog. It's the white dog. Well, I'm curious to know the chiquini's ambassadors, because they always bring here some Brazilian ambassadors, but the culture indicates that this dilation will come out. We even talked about this week, over the exchange of defense of Daniel Vorcar, he brings a judge name with more experience, experience in pre-made dilation, in pre-made dilation, in pre-made dilation, then he leaves the old dilation, also over that that burbuinho about the conflict of interest, since he was called, which must be dilated by Daniel Vorcar, and now with this defense of Vorcar's defense, the minister of the Dementonça speaking about the possibility of dilation, it seems that no one will solve this. Nobody, who Brazil is a chaos. Everyone is standing there, as I said, Lucas, I don't want to vote more, many names will appear, what also runs, although there has not been the defense of Vorcar's defense of the Dementonça, is that there must be people who will be beaten of this, who must be beaten, the federal criminal surprised. Maybe they are out of the place, what runs there by the media, by the press, only coming with a colonel of the Monika Berg and Monika Falas about this, in the São Paulo's forest, that he will be beaten justly, that is already tired, that is the owner of a resort, who used the resort for money, Brazil already knows about this situation. We also have a moral contract that was never explained, and now Vivian Barzi process there, the report of the CPM and NSS that talked about the contract, talked about a possible lavage of money of the contract and it is being processed. A parliamentary should have been privileged, that is in the exercise of its paper, investigative, inside a CPM being processed. So, although can you see, in fact, this blinding, it is already a guy who tried to blind, who conversed, forced the day of prison, and so on, etc. We know that the Supreme has nothing in the little bit of this situation. But, I'm curious for my opinion of Chiquinita too, if I think this will be the dilation, which names there, if I think can appear, Brazil is really hot, how are the citizens around there? Look, it's just the dilation will come out, but it will not be easy by the following. Andremendonsa will not accept that the dilation of the attorney is partial. This search of the defense of the attorney to Andremendons saying who he wants to be and who he wants or the part, was not accepted by Andremendons. The defense of the attorney seeks the minister of the director of the law he is willing to give this minister, he is the minister of the STF in the table, but he needs to blow this minister to this conversation. And Andremendonsa says not accept that. Not accept because the law does not accept. The law of criminal organizations is the law that is the treatment of the primed dilation. The law says that the dilation has to be total. You have to say everything you know about the criminal fact is to deliver the authorities, deliver the people involved and deliver the proofs. If your dilation was partial if it was selective as it was from a policy of, for example, there is no allow and it will not be accepted. And Andremendonsa the defense of the attorney who if so or for they will not be involved. The STF will not be involved this primed dilation. In the citizens the information of that the lawyer has more of 30 political brazilian politicians to dilate. Even with parties are more of 30 federal deputies and senators who have already been dilating. So the dilation is already initiated because how does the dilation work primed? You do not mark one day and hour to dilate. No, the dilation begins to form natural. You call the chief of the investigation, you call the president of the investigation, you call the member of the public ministerial with the attribution in the case and start to say oh, I have this, this, this, this, interesting. It is a legal business, it is a competition. They are involved in legal business. Look, interest this from what I have, I have these deputies, I have this proof, these proofs against him. Then the president of the public ministerial says, interest, they start to negotiate. Okay, if I deliver these people these proofs what are my benefits? It is legal business. I give what you want of proofs not to say, the dilation is not talk, the dilation is proofs, I give what you want and you give me what is wrong. This give me something is the prize, that's why the dilation is prize. I deal and receive a prize. The prize may be even not being processed. This moment that the lawyer is is the best moment for him to be and the defense of his very experienced experience knows that that's why he has already been positioned in the pre-media dilation because if you are not the leader of the organization and we know that he is not you can dilate and at this moment before the process your dilation is effective and this is the best prize you avoid the process but the minister Jadis said or what to talk or always calis and paracel dilate what has to be shown your proofs or your dilation now the defense of the lawyer, the lawyer is between the cross and the sword and he thinks that they will prefer dilation. Cheekyini, I want to ask a question about this as a criminal lawyer we saw a great famous dilation that was from Maurocid that was the only solution for him to be in the end the process is already the only solution that was from Maurocid that was the only solution for him to be in the end and he thinks that the lawyer will have some benefits and they can't be in the process it doesn't seem bad at this moment that there are many proofs against Daniel Vorkaro and he is already in the process for example with the certainty to be effective that he devolve the money he has the pre-media dilation is an American institute and if you look at the criminal access the American, even the American prefer the crimes of corruption that you devolve all the money you stole even the crime of the crime of the crime and not to recover so the pre-media dilation and this pre-media is the sub-assumption it's very rare and we don't know if we already live in Brazil if Vorkaro was very certain to deliver all the proofs and to be financially all that he devolved to ensure that he is not processed because he would have been punished in his reputation and financially so it would be what you did is a punishment and you have to be punished so the state let you process one but get 50 this is the math if he is not able to get 50 I don't say that this will be done if he is awake he will fight for that so that he is not processed so the lawyer is a good lawyer who fights for the best benefit of his client but if he wants the best benefit of his client he has to be more sure possible in the dilation and must be replaced with the 30-git that they deviate now the common pre-media dilation is a less high-quality time but in fact it is very clear that this exit of the lawyer is very interested in a dilation and it will have to be effective as it was put by the lawyer very well we will talk about a department of the smith who is a founder in fact this statement happened because of his speech in his first organized and the smith is a founder of the capital he says the next one is signed the bank's founder Daniel Vorcaro he said he said about Nelson Tanuri look and here the sign of Nelson Tanuri is one of the heads I think the highest of hierarchy my feeling is that the person did not know what was happening was put in political elections that Vladimir Vladimir is the founder of the capital and in this question we have to remember who is Nelson Tanuri the company has many companies even he was awarded by the federal police and had his phone when he did a vote to the court he was sure that he would be a vice-voter so 100 big companies he delivered his phone to the federal police in this period that I ran there on October 14 January 14 so I wanted to put you to start to send the plukes please I have a question about the situation and I want to ask you I want to ask you I want to ask you I want to ask you I want to ask you I want to ask you I want to ask who David 來 and I want to ask transfer money to live, to live a luxurious life. So Carla, about this talk, of course, it can be that you're already a doctor, it can be that it is really a bit abandoned by other people who hid their name, were more experts, let's say, to not appear publicly, as Daniel Vorcaro, being the face of the master for so long, but it's a little frustrating to see so much impunity, it also happens, but I hope that this lesson comes out all the names, including these two or three or you there as ministers, so that we feel less impunity feelings. See here, even in drug trafficking and mainly drug trafficking, in crime organized as a whole, in the mafia historically, you have the figure of man behind you. What is the figure of man behind you? It's the fact that he has the domain of fact. Remember in the message, the message in port, Brazil, a theory of the penal right, which is called the theory of the domain of fact. Not always that one who has the domain of fact, that is, the true leader of the organization, it appears. It's very common, you have the face. And that one who has the face, he has benefits too. So from the first time I saw Daniel Vorcaro on the scandal. Now I already thought it's obvious that he is a big fish, that he is super involved, but it's obvious that he is not alone. And if it is a certain one, even if he is alone, he has no need to be alert, because the law says that the leader of the organization does not be alert. The leader of the organization does not be alert, and it's obvious that if he wants to be alert, he has someone above him to be alert. And we will know, he will have to say. The André Mendenza is doing a brilliant job. Probably, André Mendenza will take care of the Cigilus, he has taken decisions that show that he is a serious judge and he will take care of the Cigilus, be preserved. Because the law, the penal trial, he demands the Cigilus of the investigations. These shikanas that we see there, that everything goes wrong, it is contra legion, it is contra legion. For example, Mauro Siddi, who is not technically a debater, I don't know if he said that, he wants to confess a crime, right? Precise, confess a crime, deliver facts and people and prove documents or lying. Mauro Siddi didn't do anything about that. Mauro Siddi is not technically a debater. And all the talks of Mauro Siddi was even the video of him dilating the vase. This is wrong, this is the law against. So, one hour or another, we will know what the lawyer is dilating. But, with certainty, with certainty, he is not the leader of this organization. And if he is a certainty, man. Let's develop this entire fight, then for you to listen to, also, Lucas and Serrão. Good evening, Carla, a hug to the Shikini too. Well, Serrão, now it started to appear, that Daniel Vorcaro would be, according to the law, the Nelsson owner would be there, he is a palm-dead, it would not be the famous Ferro test, as we said in the popular, isn't it? Serrão, the question is, still, Shikini said with a lot of property that Vorcaro possibly is not the leader of the scheme, etc. But still, there is a question there, we know that a banker for more force than has, it does not change the history of the country. He goes to page 2, but who are the powerful, the political, deputies, senators, ministers of the state, the president of the republic of which he was found with him for the agenda. So, still that Vorcaro was the chief of the scheme, but that he proposed his defense, as Ben lembrou Shikini, a defense experienced, who already signed several relations, even in the law's operation. And he delivers everyone here, Vorcaro paid, and it is not a bit, it must be juiz, it must be deputies, it must be senators, it must be, the world still, I think, for the federal public minister, there would be a great adieu, and obviously, that the defense of Vorcaro will try the best possible, it will not evolve everything, it will not, he will still be with good millions in the account, he will go out tomorrow from the crowd, even because as I said, a billionaire used to come with a old man, the camarão in champagne, he will not stay there for years, mainly knowing everything he knows. So, a question of time, this deal, as possibly the own Vorcaro's sculpture, but I wanted to know from you, Serrão, if I think that the man is a guy who has a partner who will appear at some point, who is the boss there, or you don't think he himself. Look, there is a great probability, it is not that he is a guy, the thing is not very like that, these financial and political crimes, they have a very similar characteristic, let's remember the Lavajato, everything that Lavajato has for it, the Petrolão, the scandal of Petrolão, the Electrolão that is the Brazil that can investigate this scandal, all these crimes involve great miracles made by the key companies, the crimes associated with Brazil can not investigate, can not purify, can not punish the true guilty, and then the same criminal action will be repeated in various situations. Brazil has a financial market that operates in a high-end bandage, the suspect that happens here, why? We have an excessive regress, and who has a lot of money, who operates schemes, always operates the margin of law. And then the game will be happening and you have false-cathruis, but now you punish someone when the house falls, then the relative is forced, there are a lot of people powerful involved, so who will you get? Then they choose someone that is below, someone that is a laranjinha, someone that is an intermediary of the operations to apply punishment. The lawyer was a guy who was very angry at the top, with certainty, there are people, I even send him or the penult together with him, and that question that you have to make was just the master bank that operated in this way? No, it answers, swear, it was just the master bank that operated in this way, is that the master case it was stolen, but there are other cases that are there that may not have been stolen, the rumble, the rumble in the system is greater, it is the double of what they are saying, so there was another regularity that the system itself, not to cause a greater cause, is talking, so these operations need to be investigated, Brazil needs to be passed to the limit, the scandal of the Petroão, the electricity was impungent, now the master case, all this makes it clear that we need to completely completely review our system of financial assistance. The central bank independent did not work right, the commission of mobile values linked to the ministry of the farm did not work right, Kof, Kof, everything that had to be done in this case was all identified with antecedents, it was a lot of movement of money, it is impossible that everything has not been investigated, everything has been done, the Fintex does not have a system to investigate what they do, has the operation carbonicult that investigated this case of liquefying with the drug trafficking, operating together with the financial market of the Brazilian this will not be supported with rigor, it will not be punished for this, because what is called attention in this master scandal is the volume of money involved, there there are clear evidence of money laundering or then the discount of capital money and Ilycito, who entered this game that seemed to be the financial market operation to facilitate after distribution of corruption and then the political field evolve, always has a political scheme operating together and then who is the chief of the scheme? Difficult to get the chief of the scheme, you will have the truth, the associates, the beneficiaries of the scheme, that gives you to get the beneficiaries, now get one and point out as a chief and you are simplistic to what to play all the bronze in the field of this supposed chief and the bar of the other and the other shortcomings, for the ones who received billions, millions, they are short, they are not the chiefs, then you choose a chief, say he is the chief and put him, the play of the rigor selective of the pinnacle is exactly yes, we have to completely review our system today, the Brazilian system in prison is a criminal system, ruin, bad for those who want to work with the seriousness, for those who want to invest money, the Brazilian investor or foreigner is always taking the return of this corruption system of pinnacle, organized, tell the total level of the state machine, the level there with the social advertising of the state machine and then we can't have a serious country in the economic point of view, so the scandal like this, the master, the bar, the structure of the economic system and the financial system of the Brazil, that's all has to be passed to the limbo, but then we have a problem, where is the political class, we don't have a political class, neither with capacity nor with moral strength to solve this type of question, so that's what we have to change this year, the people have to elect people with promised changes, they have to have the debate about the change of the Brazilian state model, the Brazilian state model is criminal and what he does is turn the activities linked to the state and the business activities, also criminals, you have to feed the state of the thief, so today we break the line, the model of the thief's state model, or we will never be able to be a real country, the lawyer is wrong, lawyer, lawyer will not be able to, there is a lot of money, but it will not be able to escape to the bar, no, everyone knows, the market knows that the thief is in the bar, but if he appears in the bar, the thief will not leave, he will never leave, he can get a very worse chain there, what he is pushing here in Brazil, even because the Emirates, the tradition of the Arab world is to cut the hand of those who steal them and the lawyer seems to have given a return to the bar, the money is very serious, so everything must be investigated, all the names involved in this case need to be investigated with all the rigor, now, depending on the degree of political involvement in the economic force of these subjects, they end up impunished, or when you have the revelation of the schemes, they have proofs that they say that this proof was obtained by the Rubo Prova. This proof, this, this story, the Vaso, the basements, many times, happen to generate this type of defecation, the information was obtained, so the null proof, this play is all done with the method, the Brazilian cannabis is done with the method, the excess of legislation that we have here, choose, send this country to have political economic seriousness, we have to eliminate the amount of laws that we have in vigor in Brazil, this is a debate that is fundamental to happen, we have to simplify the economic system, to minimize imposed fiscalizations, we have to change a fiscalized model, Lukas Saba, all that of Picaretágio in Brazil only happens because the fiscalization is corrupt, together with the bandits, that's the drama. So, change that, we will continue by following the rules, what we do. And still on the issue of Daniel Vorcaro, Jorge Serrão, the parliamentarians come back to access the banks of the master's office, according to the federal police, because some of these data are in the salaco, over there, with national congress, they could not be accessed, but it is what it indicates, let's put on the screen the Gazeta da Gazeta de Pove, that shows this agreement of the measure of the order of the director, André Mendoza, gives the full full of the federal police. There, from the P.F. and the soldiers of Vorcaro, they returned to the Senate after the administration of the CPM. The P.F. informs that in agreement, the decision of the minister, the Supreme Court of the Federal André Mendoza, in the high. Look, there is the P.F. 15.612 federal street, made the withdrawal, the copy, security, and later, the data exclusion, stored in the technical environments of the federal senate. The measures were executed with rigorously the observance of the custody cadet protocols, integrity, probatory, and segregation of sensitive information in this third row. There is one more thing that says that the state of the city would have access to the data. Look, during the action was constructed in the Senate, previously given by the P.F. The measure was carried out by the director of the CPM, the Epo company, that is, Carlos Viano, the senator first. The fact generated a new flow of the download and the storage of the files, outside the initial control of the custody cadet, established in the judicial system. The facts were, of course, the minister, the director. Jorge Serrão, what do you want to say, translating? They could not access to a computer computer computer and they access this data, because everyone wants to know what has a new, what has the cell phones, the computers, in the boards of Daniel Forcar, who wants to know if the name itself is there in the middle, if the name is collected, etc. And then this statement ends with the counter, the minister the director already put the counter to this question, which reinforced me, who, importantly, sat down for a matter of fact, wanted to hear if he thinks that this statement is more beneficial or prejudices a possible violation of the Forcar. Again, the statement is always strategic. They immediately interest them to then justify the annulation of the process. That's it. The game is repeated. The same thing that happened in the Petrolão in the Electrolão that was not investigated, I say that, but why are you sending a lawyer to Serrão speaking of Electrolão? Well, there is a scheme equal to the Petrolão in the electrical sector that we do not have to purge. No, it investigated. It did not punish. And the choice of the action continues operating. And then you, I, you, are paying a high-quality account for that. Right? That's what people do not understand. Do you think that corruption benefits only the banhido, the banhido, it's good, the state is injured? No, what is injured is people. It's people who pay this account of corruption. Brazil needs to pay the account of corruption. The violence that we have in this country today is fruit of this. If here there was a punishment, you would have much less violence. But the violent system financed the robbery. It operates along with the robbery. So violence can not be diminuted. If you have money from the traffic in the financial system, operating in these scandals, you will never end up with the traffic. The traffic is good for the system. The traffic is interesting to ban the banhido politicians. So you will not end up with the traffic in this model that we have in Brazil. And then it's easy, after you play the coup, as I say, then go to school, go to the Beltrano, that lives in the community, says that he is the big boss of the crime. And this goes to the federal federal penalty because the government, the chief of the crime, lives in the wonderful environments of the public life or the economic life of the Brazilian. He's there, he's there, taking the guy with his face, living in the Babesca. And that is the real criminal. It's not the Chinese who is in the federal federal penalty. Or in the prisons, the infects that Brazil has paying, including the pen. No, so we need new. We have to change this model structure. The commission of mobile values, this business has to be extinct and re-created. It can't be done with that. There was a CPI, CPMI, of the commission of mobile values. We have to redefine the paper of the Coaf. The Coaf is understanding your paper to which it was created. I don't know, there are many doubts, many serious things. How much money is moved in the country? Nobody knows, nobody ends up being punished at the end. Puniunzinho, Puniú outro. But the big roll is sold in the whole world. Bank of Central, independent bank. Or independent bank? You're really making paper of tax-effects. This financial system, I mean what we have, no, it's not doing. So we need a serious debate. But we can't debate it politically. Come to the electoral year, and the discussions will be empty. They will be hot and useless discussions that don't match the structure of the state power. The structure of corruption is in the Brazilian state. This is our problem. Here we need to elect a president of the republic who can have the leadership to command a change process in this country. And for that he will have to have the power force of the legislative and also have to have the collaboration of the judiciary that will also need to pass through a revision. All of this that the president of the Federal Supreme Court has said lately in several courses the words of Luiz Edson Fakim have to be taken more seriously. We are not taking his words seriously. He is sending the message in the limit that he can, but the model as he is does not give more to the council. So Lucas, will we change or will we change with this? Shikini said about the issue of the statement, etc. I made this question to the council. And it seems to me that this selective statement saw Shikini just not to be more correct it seems to me that he has helped the own indomitable through a press of the public opinion to take determined measures. See now the president of the CPMI of NSS Calusviana says in the live broadcast of the Caltio Prasey party for a time that he asked the statement of the Stoffle and the Morais if it was not the statement then the person was very comfortable there and he had asked the statement of course it is very remote that they are already passed but I think this press also puts the Anderson look I had to take decision because I feel common press is impressive so I think this statement helps to not be alone there in the island what do you think Shikini? Look at your friend there are two different points here ok? First the parliament has a judicial order see there is a decision of the director of non-vazement the director says it is not to access information that do not say respect exclusively directly to the involved the parliament the parties that decomprir a judicial decision and just in search of like to divulge something that is in the gil this is a crime of responsibility so the public agent in the condition senator deputado who turns to decomprir a judicial order and this is a reason to be impeachment this is a reason to be punished and this is a reason to lose the mandate so it is very serious a parliamentary to decomprir a judicial order which is very clear ok? The second point is this statement that you made a reference of the statement via the press that influenced the public opinion because the press has the source of the we do not know until when it will but constitutionally the press has the source of the so the vulgar press is a thing it will not re-care process it will not re-care no repressal about the press that divulged the information because the gil is the public agent if the journalist had access to the information not important the reason for which he had the journalist can divulge so the problem is parliamentary divulging the information if it is this can not happen now this press has access and divulging everything is fine what happens because when the press is taking this care to be very clear and I think it's correct I need to once again applaud the minister Andrea Mendenza here I will talk a thing to you Andrea Mendenza just not being perfect because there is no being human perfect but he is being very assertive in an investigation when you take a cell phone from someone and you put a shoe called Celebrate this is the name of the device of the software that all the cell phone it is paid Unique Visualization so those messages Unique Visualization will be recovered paid photos paid videos all this is exported so the police's appearance has access to everything so imagine a cell phone that is exported will have messages from my wife will have messages from my father will have messages from clients will have messages from friends so will have situations in that cell phone of people who are not directly involved with the case so in fact you have to take care not to expose intimacy the anger and the private life of the third innocent so you preserve the cell phone it is to preserve the third innocent and the constitution says the cell phone exists to preserve anger intimacy and the private life of third innocent so what when Dremendosa did? Dremendosa he called the CPMI Dremendosa censored the CPMI he said that in the whole the federal police the president of the investigation that is a police delegate must make a filter to envy the CPMI just that that has direct relationship with the case that was the Dremendosa's term made certainly I did a little different I would give this responsibility to the CPMI's editor I would give a decision directly to the CPMI's editor and he said just to the members of the CPMI filtered data that they say directly to the involved now Lucas answering your question in fact the public opinion is only on the state of Dremendosa only on the right side because the press has made a work of divulging information that has access and this is constitutional this is legitimate now discovering that these serious information have been made of a public agent then the public agent complies Lucas so now I want to ask you about this situation because when there is a number of articles that must be gigantic that must be immense because it is not a cell phone several phones several computers all that was learned by the federal police to make this investigation and then you have to take this into a cell phone and leave it just who has the power to release or not release and that kind of message to release to be made of the Ciglo we say partial of this this documentation that is there because wanting or not but that there are personal messages there it is a documentation that must be evaluated and then depending on who the valley a lot of things can be hidden well complicated this situation because it was a discovery of the order in the parliamentary session we were talking here that parliamentary session already that received access and they they were a video but that they saw information of something that the minister gave a decision talking to not access these tests so the situation will be complicated for someone we are talking to before who is responsible that is your question is the representative of the commission that should be your responsible to hold these tests and not let this assessment be voted and then the worst of this situation is that the material that was voted that the parliamentarians were access precisely videos sexual, videos that can be complicated a lot for many people like if the Chiquinian we are talking about more than 30 people who can be treated maybe these names also are in these videos the situation is complicated every time and I think both talks are in these videos if the parliamentarians have access what is a parliamentarians to come to the press and fall in the middle of the people's parliament and we still consider this being please we have the German Fried brothers wrote this report about these data that they returned to the police and then they were closed they included to explain this topic on the influencer there's a holiday even back in the week on the average news and they arelining this topic and the commonlon press they already spoke about an event to be able to have some work in Brazil. We know the strength of the people, but the people are not knowing their strength. We know the strength of the black Americans as well as the other black Americans. And then we saw many places in the world suffering from the brusques of the black Americans. That was not in Brazil that we saw this situation there in 2008. We see that this is recurrent in several parts of the world. I'll call the Chiquini to start this comment. And then I'll go back to São Paulo and we'll also comment on it. Please. The Lula is getting tired of the trucks. You see that we need to recap some things. Brazil, who cares about Brazil in the costs, are the trucks. The truck that goes out many times from home and goes back a month after 60 days after. I know the truckers who stay 60 days without going home, running this brazilian. And the Lula's margin of trucks is almost unexistent. So Brazil, the transport in Brazil, it is via the roads. We don't have ferrovia. We almost don't use the plane to transport. Which is very insignificant, it's very expensive. So we depend on the roads. And the price of diesel is absurd. Now think about the following. We depend on the trucks so that Brazil exists. On the other hand, the price of diesel is just a lie. And there's a point now that nobody is talking about. The diesel is ending. It's going to be missing. So the trucks are not just stopping. Because the value of the diesel is absurd. The value of the pedals are absurd. Not only for that, but because the diesel is ending. And the Lula is getting politically wrong, saying that it's lowering the price of the imposter. Look how it is, it's going to be. Look how it is, it's going to be loose. Maybe it's going to assume its responsibility. Of missing the diesel. It's missing the diesel. The price of the absurd, you know what he does? He comes from a lie. The Lula comes from a lie. This has nothing to do with me. And it's missing the diesel. This price of absurd has nothing to do with me. I'm going to drop the imposter. So the trucks are very certain. They are going to sell their rights. Because they are the trucks that carry this and Brazil on the costs. The class of trucks needs respect. The trucks need to have a feeling. They have to have a feeling to buy a cheaper pedal. They have to have a feeling to buy a pedal without a post. They have to have a feeling to pay a fuel and have a feeling to pay a fuel. How will the truck put food in the table? If a truck has a pedal in the street, he can't afford to sleep in a safe place. So there is really a cause. The life of the trucks is a cause. It's a profession that is impossible to exert on this current scenario. And the government is legitimate. If the trucks stop, we can't keep them. We will suffer this paralyzing. We will suffer because we will have to keep the markets. We will have to be comfortable. We will have to be very careful. But it's super legitimate. Because in fact, the government is being very unfair to our trucks. So I don't have to criticize this position. Because it's a point that is sustainable in life of our trucks. And the vice president doesn't think that. He doesn't think that. He's trying to talk to him. Put it here for me. Open your mouth. I hope he doesn't have it. Because he doesn't have a lot of sense. He wants to say that the government has already anticipated it. He has already taken measures. He is selling me. This country. How do you say it's a rascal? They are selling me. We already have a position. We will have a low impact. But when these serious things happen, they start to impose until they get to the point. This takes a semester, Carla. This is a semester, this measure. It needs a immediate measure. And they are not doing it. They are legit. Some trucks stop and Brazil stop. I say to you. We can't complain. And if everything is a political issue, this talk of the Alpeman and an attempt to threaten, and a more pressing, a more pressing situation that can affect, it can't be already affecting the government's image. It's becoming worse in the election researches. And they are trying everything to threaten, and the image of them. So, since the case of the Vorkar, the case of the NSS, now they put a little light on it. Then there are the political issues that are internationally involved. So, the image of the Lula is already suffering. A extreme gas has several sectors of the population that are mobilizing against Lula. Flávio Bolsonaro is growing. He is getting to seek a more moderate public. He follows, obviously, with the public who is more right. And he is getting to reach the center of the cell. Every time he is growing, he is getting certain in his campaign strategy. And then, when we see the possibility of the Americans to stop, which happened in the recent past, the pandemic in 2019, 2018, that the Americans stopped Brazil and we felt the impact of this war. And that makes it extreme now. They try to look for, as I said, to take the measures, to sell more and more measures to limit a population's partiality that can make a protest, a war that will mobilize the whole Brazil. We saw what happened in the recent war of the most intense measures. Everything was re-managed. It was even in my year of the AB, the name that AB stopped the test. It didn't happen years ago. The AB didn't do it. It had to do it another week because the Americans stopped. So, it can be an impact on the tremendous, and it can be a factor that will take the end of the Lula government and the difficulty of a relationship. We hope that something really happens and that this kind of narrative of ideological violence that we have already done is already in our hands. This doesn't happen because, as Chiquin said, this year, until we reach the Americans, or very soon, to go to Brazil until we see this. We continue with you, Lucas and Serrão. Exactly. Carla, Chiquin, Ani, about this issue of the American flu, let's put Serrão here. We have a comment on this in the Cerro deus, in the Café, we have a comment on this here, the leadership of the Americans, in which he made the conference, the meeting, in which everyone voted for the paralyzing. And Chiquin said, it's necessary, the government, to present a package today that is a pinnacle of the truck, to be changed. How is the situation in the road? There is a point of rest, where they go to the bathroom, where they feed all this, the government needs to think. It's in this part that the government has to think. So, there are a series of questions that need to be reviewed. It seems very clear to me that the leadership of the truck had put in the table in a very clear way, all the requests. The law now has been guilty, no, because the state imposed part. I've been asked here, but the governor has to be asked to. The governor's costs are to present the president, so, Ratinho Junior, Paraná, Eduardo Leite do Granso, Ronaldo Cahado de Goiás, Romeusima de Minas Gerais, but there are several Petites governors who didn't have a seat in the S.M.S. as well as Jorceão. So, this war is in place. But the problem is that the war between Caminhoneiros and the government, who loses the population, I remember well, because they were in another mess, and the governor of Missora, who covered the truck drivers in 2018, so, the governor of Michel Temer, from May 21st to June, and we had no fuel in the cars of Missora to manage to go to the streets that had the paralyzes. So, adulterer, Castelo Branco, Banderan, etc. They had a massive disabastecimento in the supermarket, pharmacists wanted to say questions about our survival and the deflation of the pariah, and the total of 14.75. Imagine if the government is missing the dialogue of the government in Serrão. Look, the Brazil is missing the Brazilian is taking the green color. Who is the fault of all this that is happening? Come on, I'm going to ask you, try to answer me. Who is the fault of all this that is happening? Come on, three seconds to answer. One, two, three. Answer me, answer me in the chat. The fault. There is only a fault. The name of it everyone knows. Corruption. Corruption is the fault of all this. Want to see? I can explain it easily, because corruption is the great fault. Brazil is a country today self-sufficient in the production of oil. The damn cool thing that is cool, because what do we do with our oil? Export. And earn a lot with this. So how much more about oil consumption in the international market? It's wonderful for this country to be brought here, because it is being exported, and who is being exported is gaining. Why do we have no Brazil is the largest oil carrier? Because the country is self-sufficient in oil. There is no cheap fuel that has been entered. Because corruption did not allow us to have refineries and this is the essential oil. So if we had refineries that corruption did not allow us to have, we would have the direct product of self-sufficient, which would be to have fuel cheap to have the internal market. So today, the fuel Brazilian we have to import fuel. And then the drama we pay the market, the value of the market, is eternal. And then Petrobras, today Petrobras is already starting to have a humble, scared up top, what he is obliged to import. It earns a lot of money, exporting, but has the free budget with the account of the importation that it has to compensate in the question of the price of fuel. The diesel, for example, the diesel is with a defasagen of 59% in relation to the international market. Our diesel was paying a lot more expensive. But Petrobras is generating a kind of subside that is an economic danger that he is doing. So it is an economic suicide. But it does because, it does because this country is corrupt. And corruption is remembered by Petroland. If I had been in the Netherlands for decades, we would have refined in Brazil to give it a break to take benefit of Petro and gas that we produce. So this is a shame. That's the first point. Then let's ask the truck drivers. Our transport matrix in Brazil is evoked. You have a country with the same way to transport cargo. In a very long distance in the truck, our adjetive, we have to be qualified to invest. And who sacrifices with this? The truck driver. And the largest, the largest, the largest, beautiful in this history is the truck driver who is now paying all the expenses. Why? Here in Brazil, we have a model of the system evoked. The Fred model. Fred has a mafia of the Fred. What makes the Fred bad for the truck driver is the mafia of the Fred who does not pay to this truck driver what he should receive from the transport driver of the company who is contracting the transport of the cargo. So we have corruption in the middle of the business, in the middle of the economic activity. So again, the fault is corruption. This corrupt country. Or we change this structure Brazilian, state and private, or we continue victims of corruption. The truck driver, the consumer, the whole world comes, comes to dance. Already. When the federal police left the country and they left the country. He went to Spain, then went to Portugal, and the federal police said very clearly. He fled. Then the defense of his knowing this, he found the minister, the judge, and the director, and said, my client will come back, he will go to the airport, but let's just make a deal here, so that it is not already paid, there is no need. Let's put on the screen, what the president's son of the public said, a year of election, someone who, according to the federal government, has done nothing more or less than 20 million reais in the last four years, which gives five million per year, until he worked in the geological garden, himself, I don't know what I'm talking about. Look, this is the combustible. Let's put the defense of the law, this is the person complaining of the prices. Here is the son of the president, there is his image, there are no taxes, there is no lawyer, his carvalor marco, there is no irregularity, Fabio left Brazil and I have to live in Madrid. I'm sure in the week he was accused, but anyway, where is he creating his children?учs nothing. A school in school and because he lives an absolutely complete life. This is what the defense is saying. Now let's show the�sri editor, who conjured himself in the Senate because Carlos Viana cannot make a firm of which the president has nothing but the fact that there is a series of points that need to be investigated that unfortunately the government base has been defeated, the CPMI has been defeated, but it is appearing in the federal police. It will appear in the final quarter and this company in Spain is more than a point that needs to be excluded. Another point that needs to be excluded is the monthly event that the son of the President of the Republic received from the NSS Careca, who is the NSS Careca, the man behind the six billion people of pensioners and pensioners in the Brazil of North-East, LSD, and that would pay 300,000 months per year, that is, a year there are 3,600 million reais. The question is, the son of the President needs to return to Brazil and explain himself because if not, the words will be the accusations will be and it will be understood that in fact he is guilty of the same. So we need to then we need to understand this side of him. Jorge Serrão has a federal police officer speaking that the President of the Republic ran from the other side we have this question of the little girl speaking that the children of Madrid have a company over there it's his domicile, etc. The question is that everything was given in my investigations. Then the people got a lot of bad Serrão. With certainty, now let's give the concrete that is this thing of you trying to assign reputation to the other is a very easy thing, this case of the little girl the lawyer of Carvalho's is leaving it clear he left it clear even to the Minister of André Mendenza. The little girl opens the accounts of her. The little girl opens the accounts of her and you will not see there in Tez, that's what is clear, there is no money that came directly from the NSS to him. So the crime of which the Lulinha's domicile will not be configured. The company that received the US$30,000 was the company of the Lutzinger Robert which is a company that he has along with the father of the Lutzinger Robert the Robert is the Lulinha's friend of his business but the money the proof that has the money's movement for the company of the Robert not the Lulinha's so that's what it looks like. Now about the Spanish question let's go in the Silva's fabulous he opened his company in Spain look, he has he opened the company there on January 13, of 2006. The social object of this company is technology services and the technology services in the sense of including the collaborative and in the digital technology in the planning planning and design of information that integrate programs and technology communication. There's the Lulinha's address and the capital of this company opened there is the Sinakta, it's the company's name capital of 3,000 euros declaration of personality or a single social this company the single social is the Silva's fabulous so he is the administrator who also is the famous Lula da Silva so these data are registered there in Spain and this company opened on January 13 the curious that this company was opened in the middle of this confusion it's what's calling the attention but apparently this one has nothing to do with the school but it's already living there at some point there are children matriculated in schools in Spanish and it prefers to live in Spain but there is a detail that has to be very careful is that the Spanish is a demon's fisc the lion dies from the worst so any 2021 its fisc it's this old braids and is in this and this record, the federal police detected the 300,000 after the mail current in the account of the Blue Singer government, but she and the father also deny that this money is the money of the government. So, it's all a game of negation. And then, where is another problem with the Brazilian? Entering this information statement, which is a statement that ends up playing for illegality. And then this statement benefits the supposed operator. This will be legal after this statement. It was illegal and this proof does not go that it was forbidden or forced illegally. And then the final result is what we always have in Brazil, impunity. So it's very careful in Brazil when you treat these issues, assassinating the reputation of anyone here is very easy, it's very common, it's the operator mode of Brazilian destroying the life of others. So, all the care is little when we see this kind of case, this denocision that ends up giving nothing at the end of the accounts. This country has suffered a reset. It has to be passed to the clean. Here there is no anesthesia, nothing in that you do an investigation seriously about the matter. Jorge Serrão, my friend, we see each other tomorrow in the same bathroom, in the same bathroom, okay? Tomorrow we will be together, then we will do it tomorrow, you pay the coffee, okay? Okay, Serrão, bye, my friend, see you tomorrow. In a little while, we have Flávio, the organist here, and I'm going to go to Captain Paro D'Ainspo and I want to know if you have any days or if you have a kidney, this question from Lulinho, we also have chain dances for there. We started our chain dances, I think he already had to be said, but Annie will finish with us this day talking about this question that involves this company, Ficticia of Lulinho in Portugal and also when we talk about Madrid, he from Madrid already, tomorrow, already, they have been stabilized, right? Speaking of the same life. I think Serrão was very precise there in giving this question mainly, the relationship of the company, in fact, must be investigated, as said in the previous video, of course, that this everything will be investigated and it is important that we have this in our hands, because we are talking about someone, who had already seen that initial income of about $ 300,000, which is friends with the Roberto Luxinger, who is the friend of Alma, right, as it was declared by Lulinho's wife, who is super involved in this situation, it is the son of the president, who is not in Brazil for a while, in Europe, because obviously we know the reasons, Brazil is here for us, even in these conditions. And then at the moment of the investigation, he has been blinded, because he also remembers that moment when he was broken, the position of Lulinho was the position, as a moron, obviously, made a effort to get more transparency to this situation, and then the government made a scandal, it was to talk about the Colombia, it was talking about problems, there in relation to the Coron, which then was confirmed by the technical commission of the parliament that was correct, the Coron, for the Cygill's team, but the Flavio Dini gave a彈, that is, being blinded by the federal criminal supremacist. And then what comes back again, always in the same circumstance, is the image of the employee's departure, if this situation is proven, and it gets increasingly shocking, that the son of the president has involvement with these absurd cases of corruption, gets increasingly made to Lula advance, to Lula grow, because we know, right, Nítido, the employee's departure is involved in the scheme of corruption since a long time, it is a part of what he has created, I say this with frequency, it is in this sindical question, it is the support of the cats, it serves to elegy the work party, and then when we see all this dissolution, we see all this blinding, also to the son, to the president, to the president, to a lot of people involved, who end up trying to make the biggest effort possible to deliver this situation. So, don't surprise each other, more and more important, to get these information and pressure each other, more and more, to the public debate, because everything will be in order, they are coming with the machine, with social programs, and with many strategies to keep the people close, but actually, I will see, and as much as we have the most evident situation, it is a project to be able to blend the cats, always, they use a beautiful and cheap course, which is this eschered course, and in fine-eleitorial, but in practice, they serve only to blend the same if keeping the power and privilege that they use our resources. In a very thank you very much, thank you, Carla, you are the great one, you have a great interview from the very little one, from the very little one, she is already coming with us, I will have some time for you to be able to go into the new sea, from our discussions, from the very little one, there is Fabiana Barroso, and we will also tell you with the soft one from the little one, there for the sample, you will also win, good carla, hug also Anidinhas, and already here with me, Flavio, Morgansten, everything is very Flavio, how are you? How are you? Everything is fine, good day to all of us, this is our team encourage, Anika, I just left, Carla, to all of our audience here, we are the team of Assum's to comment today. One of them is the president of the son of the president of the republic, which says that there is nothing to see with absolutely nothing, that is, the same as the triplex creators in the Guarajana Emil City at the Bayer, the son is also not Emil, well, there is not even a relationship, there is no name, there is nothing to see, I have to see with Mr. Lula, the most fun thing now is that they don't disfarge, that is, he just arrives, the courage, I don't know why the company doesn't call it more courage, he talks about the blood of the Allan, the blood of the virgola, the courage, the blogueiro Bolsonaro is the courage in his case, the courage now from the line that the PF, even already suspects this term, so very subtle, put, you know, ran, ran from the head, from the head, as the kisses that are to be indicated by Lula, probably the vote will only be for the year that comes, David Columbe, I had this also, I knew, David Columbe and it will hold on to how many could we are, we are only with 10 ministries on this ETF, David Columbe will hold on to the year that comes to pass the elections, the kisses that was famous in Brazil just because Dilma wanted to indicate Lula to the minister, justly, also to escape from the chair, I didn't get it, the other messages were left and then we were knowing this type of play, the chair is also, it's out of it, it's running from the chair, from the chair, to steal the deposit, that's a big truth, he doesn't disfarge, he arrives in Spain and the first thing he does is he opens a company, the next one already opens the company and we already know what it will be, what it will steal money, but as there is a jurisdiction of the Spain and Brazil, Brazil will not release anything, we know it will have to pass by the ETF, this will not be able to deliver anything, we already know what will happen, how will it end this story? People sent here in the comments that Lula will say that the son is not going to the party, they will need the sun day, which is with us from seven hours in the morning, our people who are sending here have an international great day today, I saw the flag coming, you see the stars, come the stars, the guts look at the country now we have spent all the stars so now I promised not to come back, come back in the comment, calm down, we need to see, what is the name of it? Dublin, the district, I am not able to read here, no, no, no, no, it is on the street, right? W, half eight, you name it, you know? Flavio doesn't know, he said, he can read it, he is here he is here, he is here ready? the thawis the half, look, the day starts, without narrative, it's very good, Santa Cruz you already went to a place that has altitude, already in Austria, but in Bolivia, I didn't want to go to Bolivia, but I couldn't go there, because there is a desert of salt there, that says that it's wonderful, that's it, what else is with us? Look, Alexandrina, the Chiquin is an excelent lawyer and he seeks justice, as all lawyers should do, and she is there, I think it's a track of running this, in the country, by the way, look, again our friend, good day, Gazeta do Povo, the best newspaper in Brazil, my friend, good day to you, who is with us, Marcia Regina, bat.d, all day, look, bring the money, but responding, present in the call of the lawyers, good day, Valet Marcia, a kiss for you, for the family, look, Val Taircio, good day, Annicarla, after Ann and leave a kiss for him, a good five-year-old, look at the pictures, look at the picture, where would we like to be? We're going to be in the Trance in São Paulo. Maringa, tied in the Gazeta, Valet Marcos, a hug, my friend, look, Ana Maria, Sido Lin, good day Lucca Sable, she says Mojimirin, Valet my friend, who is with us, Felix, with all the family, who is a good photo, there, the children, good day to all, Luziane, the lawyers, Flávia, a person who doesn't like the lawyers, and we have the governor of the lawyers, then we pass here, Elizabeth Lopes, good day to Gazeta do Pove, you are great, hugged Norega, and it's great. It's a nice, Norechique Ike, look, if you understand, you have invented something, hugged Norega for you, see you every day, she's not too much, very good too. Norega, is it? possibly, well, I'm going to go back to my origin position, to go back there, to that one, if we already have the Fabiana Barroso, who is going to the Paraná Insta, with you Carla. That's it, I'm going to get angry, Roberto is going to get me today. Good day Fabi, welcome. Fabi, for us to start talking, I think we can already enter this question that we talked so much here, until the men are drunk, will the president say that the son is not his, he has nothing, he has nothing to do with it, he has always received this name of Lulinha. Good day Carla, good day to Flávio, to Lucas Lansson, Paula, all of our audience. Look, what we are seeing, is that Lula is talking about the downstairs, but it's downstairs, we don't know if this is really the truth, it's that she forced the son to go out, just the middle is talking there, look, Lula was an example, sent his son to pay if he was proven, he did something in the background, when Lulinha tried to join, he had his lawyer tried to interrogate the group, he tried to find the André Mendonça, took a big drunk, Lula, because it seems that he had been brought, he became the subject again, as if the subject had left, from the radar, he didn't leave, he didn't leave, Lulinha is, in fact, someone who will bring a problem in the electoral year to the parties. It's very important, because they have a sense of impunity, so big, that they think that even the federal police is a federal police, I hope that this class is investigating, because we have the classes, I say all day, that's it. It's very independent to investigate Lulinha and bring results, which seems to me investigating. And then, together with this, we also have, the declaration of André Rodríguez, which in a lecture, Lyle says, we are going to investigate, be here, and I think this record was more for the ministries of the Supreme Court of the Federal, more I think, that people can understand that it is worth for Lulinha. We will confer, because this question of the federal police has a way of changing, as they have them. As if, if some political group that is, this, we are normalizing something very bizarre, of doing this, this, of protecting some political group. It can't be like this, it shouldn't be like this. I hope the population will understand and make the pressure of life. In relation to the own Senado, and the own CPM, and also the CPM, and also the CPM that is organized. We are seeing people, even though the Alcolumbria is a little bit forgotten about his loss. But Alcolumbria, even though it is denied the establishment of the CPM of the Banco Master, I think this is being improductive, because we are the federal police and two CPMs. CPM is a CPM and another CPM. But everything also indicates that CPM will not be propagated. But even not being propagated, it will make a lot of strain, because the truth is hard for those who try to go through a path saying that the truth is the truth. The truth is the only truth. We hope that everyone will come. We hope the same, right Fabi? Well, let's talk now with São Paulo, so we can already make this support in the break. And I don't know if we have our interview there, but we continue with you, Lucas. Well, Carlos, we have a connection with the federal Adrian Ventura from the new São Paulo while we are going trying to make our next important assault. Paulo Goneu, the general prosecutor of the Republic has been admitted and has been asked for a commission among them, because after all the director of the Banco Master he has not done anything against the Astoffel, against the own brothers of the Ministry, Donos do Risorte Tayai in Rio Claro, in the interior of Paraná that has been with Banco Master, also the Ministry of Memorial Ministries, the wife who has a contract of 129 million, the wife who has a contract of 22 million, and Paulo Goneu is following in his own depth as are his friends, he, at first, will not do anything he wants to hear. My article at the newspaper of today, the public now little, he comments even about this, about the Lord Paulo Goneu, because the change of PGR was much more significant than the entrance of the own Flavio Dino on STF, Flavio Dino was replaced by a communist another, he replaced Levantoves, which by Flavio Dino, and Flavio Dino, the Minister of Justice by Levantoves, which is, for sure, shows that there is no separation between the powers in Brazil, the fact of a minister, of a Jewish minister, a minister, and let's remember that Flavio Dino in addition to the Cain, has a senator's cargo. That is, he was in three powers at the same time, the same person, practically at the same time, doing this change. Now, this means look at these little faces, right? There is no separation between the powers in Brazil. Flavio Dino, even had his little little, I beat a lot in this article, made it together with the Paulo Goneu. This way, what happens? You have the prosecutor who has to invest in the US, the US, the US, right? Everyone there has to invest. And that's what was the biggest change. Paulo Goneu was also financed by the Banco Master. So, why is he protecting the Banco Master? All of this explains only to a little financial financial. Now, the coffee with the Pove's has the pleasure of receiving the Federal Deptada, Adriana Ventura from the new Paolo's Quits, Deptada is a pleasure to say this again. Look, the pleasure of those crazy things like the Pove's Quits, it was a great difficulty in the Senate, I'm in the Federal Senate, we have the PMI and the instants, so the Senals helped us, but I'm very happy to talk to you. Our pleasure, Deptada. I wanted to ask to just about this. The Senals makes part of the CPMI, maybe the most important, today, in the National Congress of NS, and there are many questions to be answered. Among them, the CPMI will continue because she has data to end on 28. The president of the House does not respond, the decision is with the Minister of the Relator of the Pove's Quits. The other question, both easy, deputies, is that if the son of the president will deport and the brother in front of the Chico, who is not afraid of anything, the Church wants very far. Look, these questions are easy because Brazil is seeing, right? I even had the time of the last week in the federal Senate and asked if I would take the office, I collected many articles, because look, everyone knows who I am, who is composing, you need to know. The CPMI's propagation should be automatic. So, the President of the Senate collected all the articles of the propagation and, in December, the view of the Vico-Lubra, including a Congress that had been protocoled, and so, this is the regulation. And this week passed, because in this soft-blooded mole will be protocoled, I collected the articles, the members of the CPMI in its majority, the opposition and the very intentional, to assign the propagation, I took the role for the senator of the Vico-Lubra, President of the Congress. He received, I said, please, please, Brazil, so he said he was thinking, he was talking to people, he didn't have the feeling of taking the role of the President of the Congress, of course. The only congregation of the President of the Congress is to do something forward, just that, not necessarily to go forward, not to go forward. So, if you ask me, the CPMI is going to be provoked, I don't believe that, I don't believe it, and it lets me be very indignant, because, who says that the MPP has forgotten that we have many people present at the scale. So, and it's sad that we don't even get into it. There's a lot of good news to get people. And the places of good news are in the street. I've already forgotten what you asked about the new lights, but what I think is that mobilization, this return, I need to be called. Because even if it's a necessity, we also enter with a request of approval, the act of the hand of André Mendonça, we already have the hand of André Mendonça, so I have to say a few words, which is the leader of the law, with Senator Carlos Viana, who is the new director of the Gaspard, we ask for approval. Now I want to leave it clear too. To roll, to the STF, it's blending, the way it's blending, to everyone entering the team of the STF with Luio, the QPT, the government, to prevent people from going after, it's very difficult, this approval. And the other point here, from your question, which I think is important, the duty of the QPT is in the Dive of Brazil, because CPM of the Master, he is also not mixing himself, and we see that it's all mixed up, so there is a Cordão, of the Master's, and the Master's, and the NSS. So this is a great concern, it's very important that there is a mobilization of the society, a mobilization, because as I said, who doesn't want the CPM to have approval, or who doesn't want the approval, that if it's installed by the Master's, or the equivalent, the occupation is corrupt, there is no other alternative, and it doesn't matter here, from which part of it is anyone? Deputy Flávio Morgan Ceraquil, a pleasure to receive it in the coffee with the gas. I wanted to push the hook of what the lady is talking about, the league of the CPM, the NSS with the Master's, because, much of the argument of Flávio Dino to laugh at the CPM, the NSS tries to say, but there is no connection between one thing and another, so you can't investigate. I wanted to know, in fact, if you enter the CPM, there is a dialogue, with the non-political institutions, that is, the Federal Police, the Ministry of Public, all the investigative organs, to be able to do this league, to demonstrate this league for society, because people are forgetting the CPM, the NSS, and unfortunately, we need, in fact, as the lady said, to make a great mobilization, but we need to get to transform, in real, who, for now, is playing the final, both in the case of the CPM and the NSS, which has a lot of us to be still alive, Robert Luxinger, who even now, opened the mouth, the owner, Lulinho, the guy from the NSS, who nobody can call, and also do this league, with the Master's Bank, which is financing the PGR and the Pro. So, we have this dialogue, with all the non-political institutions, too. Look, we have this dialogue with part of the non-political institutions, because, as you said, we see that there is a conflict between the three powers, we are talking about elites, elites of the Dola Legislative Fund, I just talked about here, that the presidents of the House don't know if they are a little ashamed, but they are. I'm not seeing the president, Hugo Motta, I'm talking here objectively, that the president of the House, because the final of the Contas, he could do a fight with the House of the Cove, he would have to do that, the senator of the Vial Columbia doesn't do this fight, now, even for the other powers, he's doing all the work of the Abafa, you're going to the executive, a little bit of a joke, you're going to the STF, the organ, or the mask, you should keep the constitution, you see the ministers involved until the end of the day, I'm not only on the 119 million of the protests of the Ministry of the Dola Legislative Fund, but also on the environmental and trade, on the agenda of the Jatinho, what does that do? It's going to be there, and I don't know what else to do there, how Dino, what did he do here to annul these things that were broken in a democratic way and correct the regimental. So it's everyone blending, everyone because everyone has the money, outside the parliamentarians involved. So, I'm going to say, I'm going to say the bandit, you have to get the bandit, you have to get the bandit to the candidate. I'm saying all kinds of bands. I'm saying the bandit to the bandit, to the people that have the senator involved or parliamentary and the other people's deputies involved. I'm saying the bandit to the party, I'm saying all the bandit's two executives, so, this dialogue happens, but there are many forces operating to Abafa at all, it's important that people understand, that here, you get NSS, the end of the session. You asked which allegation? The end of the session is the end of the session. From the moment we enter the end of the session, we get to know each other. We have many financial institutions involved in the end of the session, including the end of the session. Unfortunately, we had a problem with the deputy and how much we had here trying to reconnect it. Flavio said it was an important matter that this issue of the CPMI from NSS has several issues. There is the son of the president, there is the own brother of the president, the child of a dischargedcosary pilot. We also have a question of this money how is it being paid to materials and pensioners that contributed an entire life, that there were broken parts of them we live on an� unfortunately in a country that, almost half of the population or adult, soap opera, can not interpret a text etc. If you know it was broken you do not know which way should the acessoate to this 및, and in the middle, that is every one defending Brazil, Flávio? But what I was commenting here with the deputada is that it's missing a delay. That is, we have a company, we have a problem with the police. And don't delay it, because the bank appears on the left, the bank is always defending the billionaire, the billionaire, the billionaire, the bank's son, right? As Roberto Luxinger, who is a member of the Credit Suisse, is always protecting, always protecting, who is doing business with money, the representatives, and the detriment, the presence of the representatives of Brazil's workers. Always grateful to see how the left is always the bank's center, millionaire, we are extremely rich and powerful, and always to prejudice the poor. What we need to know is how these movements were made, from the EMS, in relation to the little ones that are made with indicators, with foundations, precisely that they care about the representatives, and mainly in areas of poor areas, that people don't understand. Then, where is the biggest part of the robot? We got the head of the connection, with the deputada, it's the same deputada. Those that we are forced to fall in a car, those that we don't want to fall, but if it's the will to conclude your answer. Thank you, guys, it's not that I'm getting indigene, because I think indigna is going to be a step forward, I don't know what it is. But just by finishing, which I think is this connection that Flavio brings to you, it's very important, they are intimately linked, because when we talk about the need, we are talking about some financial institution, of the council, of the council, that make this, in a executive meeting, we saw all the directors of the NSS, the NSS, they were companies, the managers of the NSS, all the government, all the government, other companies, or are here, leaving the course with the electronic council. And the fact is that one is pushing the other, so much so that we are asking for things from the master, that master is also convinced. And the fact of this step forward, we are going to get into the council, that are convinced that, certainly, it will be for the master and everyone. So, a great accord here is the Bafengu, because from the NSS, the NSS, that the government is going to be involved in your speech, the President's son, this kind of government, all of the German, of the syndicate, and the contact that hasn't even come, which is the BT's legal accord, that millions and millions of people of the associations that were not blended by the government. And the master, the master, who involves the political policy, the corrupt, a political policy, the corrupt, besides the ministers of the STF. We were in a serious corruption, from the elite, three powers of the republic. So, we really need to be entrusted to this party, and that it is necessary to go to the KD, now with the supply of the Federal Supreme Court, and with the supply of so many people here, to start the boycott of the President of the National Congress, it's hard. The President is here, that Calali is talking to the President here, that is welcome, his name is a name dedicated to the TCU. And so, we need so much, that the Federal Supreme Court can really work doing its job, which is to fiscalize, fiscalize what the government is doing with money. We are talking about trillion in dividend, and we are talking about a completely uncertain future for the 27th. So, as the lady saw today, her name is for the TCU, and this change in the way to fiscalize what must be fiscalized. Look, man, to talk to you, it's really my name dedicated to TCU, but I must admit, that there is a lot of frustration seeing that first. The TCU is a super important weapon, there is a lot of servicemen, very competent, but the fiscalization is missing in Brazil. Just to see that these ferns, GNSS of Master, in fact, it's a lot of fiscalization that was not done. So, my name is dedicated, but there is an agreement for the name, it is the TCU deputado deputado deputado, the TCU deputado deputado, has made this agreement in his election. So, I want to say, let it be clear, that the TCU is a brave brother of the legislative. He is the fiscalizing brother of the legislative. Now, we have a legislative that has not been fiscalized, we have a TCU that became a political organ. Just to see what Jonathan Jesus, who was deputado here, has made when he arrived there, and on the central bank, to defend the face, to defend this bandalier. So, I think we really need to put in institutions people who want to work for the country. People who don't want to take advantage of the cargo to make use of the TCU, use of bandalier. And I think the TCU has a fundamental role, so, in fact, I am in the position. But, in the end of this story, we already know, there is an absurd accord to take the deputado of the Pt-Parmt TCU. I was promised by the government. Good day, deputado. I don't know if I'm still in return. But I wanted to take advantage of my name, who is Fabiana Barroso. Thank you, deputado, from the venture to the Staconosco. I have some questions. I have two. The first is in relation to what what will be the work today of CPMI. If there will be, I know that that Graefe's death was convocated, but there was an expectation of it to use a couple of copies because I know that she is not in Brazil, but what is the program of today if you could make a brief comment on Graefe's death. And also, if there is time here, if the owner had time to talk quickly about the approval that had increased by 80,000 to 130,000 reais. This is very important because in Brazil, it needs to be done by the company. Fabiana, I want to talk to you. Today, the CPMI program is very restricted. It is very restricted by two reasons. First, because we already know that Graefe has been blessed with a lot of gratitude for being here. So, it seems like a white body so that in the second year it was canceled. The last two unions for canceling today we would like to know because we have deliberation, but unfortunately, few deliberations. Today, I warn you, the CEO of C6, the bank, we, at the moment that I came here to talk to you I had no news of liberation of white bodies. So, I'm still believing but I'm still here. I don't know if it's been the last hour. And how will it be? We have small deliberations today. Even because I have several requirements that have never been paid by the president of the U.S. company. Mainly, the LELF, because we have to understand that all this movement that he had had millions in the account has increased by 20 million. And I saw four million of his company that he doesn't do anything, that he doesn't have any money. We wanted to break this record. And this was not paid. I covered several times the president of Carusoiana, but really, they are doing everything to pay this CPM. In relation to your second point, Fabiana, which is also a very important point, is the increase of the limit of the individual company. We know that there is a lot of time the productive sector has been completely massacred with so much contribution. And this play, the increase of the simple national limit, was very important. I was the president of the public audience on the day of the impredecessorism, where we all gather all the productive front, the front of the impredecessorism, the front of the commercial service, the front of the small company, the front of the woman in the predator, and this sole session was very symbolic, because it is national simple, and it was a very common movement. I want to leave it clear here, what was approved was urgency. There is a lot of resistance from the merit to the merit of the subjugated. I am an impredecessor, Professor of impredecessorism, until today in the G.V. I am very accommodated, the productive sector is not valued in our countries, it is that move the country, pay the bills, and that is not voted the merit of the fact. There is a lot of time in the union of leaders, I asked the agency for that many times, and it is a huge resistance of the government, because that will bring less success, really, but now I have to try to increase functionalism, so they do not think about that, in the billions and billions of projects. But let's see if this white coat has a lot of mobilized people, a lot of front and many parliamentary and involved in this coat, and we really need to value who pays the country, who pays the country, who pays the country, and who really does what the machine does in the G.V. who are the entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs, the industries, who have courage in the future, despite the security, despite the so-called tribulation. I have to say, to close the interview, there is still a question of the CPMI of the NSS. Today we have a special presence in the São Paulo studio, which is my voice, and I wanted to ask this robot because it was also raised, as well as hundreds of thousands of Brazilians and pensioners. The question is, part of this money has already been developed. Not everything, and it will not be in the middle of these six billions. And what happens? The government is using the national treasure and all the others who were stolen. But this money, in fact, should not be left out of the treasure which is the sum of the wealth of the country, of our taxes, tributes and taxes, but being the good of the syndicate and associations that stole us. So, this question is when this person will start paying for what he stole. Look, this is the big point. Because I see deputies who do not have a fair money talking about the CPMI. Oh, because the government in Lula is defending the representatives. I have already developed the money to listen, to develop the money. But he is not bringing who stole the money. All the money is stolen. The billions and billions of stolen. So, the companies outside the country the government is not bringing the money. The government is taking the money of all Brazilian population to really develop a part of the representatives. But this is not good. Because all of us Brazilian population is paying this account to protect the representatives. It is not the government in Lula. It is the same combination of the government in Lula. It is brought by the bandits who were stolen from the country. Others are very busy in the foreign sector. This money, billions and billions have to be erased and developed. So, for their voluptuous that was stolen this is the following. This government is not developing anything. This money that is being developed is the population. Because the stolen billions are outside the country with the indicators, with the associations, with the banks, with the bandits. Now that it causes a lot of indigestion still talking about the G.U., the Messias and so on. I remember that when the government was going to the Magnets, which is all that, the G.U. the next day the counter-abandoned contractor to defend the G.U. I did not see this campaign to make the same money but in the present. I want to see the money abandoned, I'm waiting, and I can't see. So, my consideration is your voice and all the all the deposits were stolen. The big and the government is so so close to the government that it seems to be doing well with your boss, in fact, it's not true. Run after the good, but in the future we will see the money that is being stolen. And so, the money that is being stolen is not true. But, in the future we will see the money that is being stolen. So, the government is going to the Magnets. The government is going to get the money. The government is going to get the money. So, can we see you on July 20th? Are you going to fight? Do you think so? No. Ok. So, I'll just be honest, it's a lot of money. Even if the following was beginning in 5 years, it means how some beused to the G.U. always feel the exposure Lucas, a hug, good day to all. We thank you even more. Well, I'll go to Curitiba because the Fabi Barrosi and also Carla Lima didn't comment about the emissions of Paulo Gone, the general prosecutor of the Republic, you know, Flávio. The emissions are the same, including the NSS, right? At the end, there is the fact that it indicates the president's family of the republic in the skin of the scandal and he has absolutely nothing to do with you, Carla. Exactly, I'm going to push Fabi to discuss this topic because I'm going to comment on the emissions. So in this talk that Gone, he admits in relation to the investment of the Bank Master's so much denunciations that weigh against the ministers of the STF including the Gestopholi, the election of the Morais and then they are really questioning this inertia, the impression really that Fabi gives is that as if everyone, as if these people were in such a situation of almost trauma, inertia, vegetating, as if nothing had been falling from their impressions. Look, Carla, let's talk below, the person who is watching does not speak very high, very low, to not agree with Paulo Gone. It is impressive, this thing of Paulo Gone being a mere member of the Ministry of the Morais, the Minister of the Marguerites. What comes there, he reads, I'm the right, he too is, right? How do you do it? A giant欠 comes. You see the beginning, you see, but the middle one, the end, it's going to be lost. Look, there, say, wait, how do you think the Minister of the Morais, how do you think my ex-socio, the Marmenes? Ah, think so, so I'll give you a little affection, yes, we see very few opportunities that Paulo Gone scored, right? Both, and even so, they are decisions that don't make much effect. And we also have the question of agility of Paulo Gone, it is very selective, wonderful, I knew that he was a little bit tall, he was a little bit of a pear, right? The day he was a little bit tall, he was there in a madrugged, ready to quickly agree with the change of prison, the Bolsonaro president of the domiciliar prison for a just preventive, we went out, quickly, gave a big, wonderful prank, and then the day he took the little pear, he said, no, guys, stop with this, that you are going to stop wanting to go with the master case, what is it, right? He agreed, he said, the prison of the man, with all this here of two requirements of a preventive prison, we don't stop with this, ah ah ah, men and women and women in the bulbs, that's how I see Paulo Gone, it's someone who is not completely connected, if it's still so, maybe we'll have the benefit here, the problem is that he is very active to agree with absurd federal prison, which are vicious, insinvasive, which will counter the legality of Brazil, he as the biggest figure of the public minister, that's it, the public minister, he ends up with all the category of the public minister, and I also get a little worried, I'm going to do this silence, I'm going to say it very low, because all the promoters of Brazil are all right, since they continue to sell their salari in the end of the month, no one will even imagine talking bad or talking bad or not even bad, talking about the right of the master case, we are not playing, but I'm not, because we are a state of things, one of us has the biggest figure that in fact, he is the criminal, he who can say, look, he gets this clown, let's face the investigation, so much trouble, how many times does he have to do that? I get like this, and we are also seeing the curses that are being done and with reason, the federal police not needing Paulo Gone, direct, petitioning, as this is Andrea Vendonça, I'm absurd, I understand, the police is right, there has to be an alternative, but I don't understand, this is the nurse of Paulo Gone. I'm here with you, and I want to act, the opinion, first of all, this phrase is a phrase of, for a person like this, of the stack, okay, let's go, God, I feel free to be judged by the judge, it's not a honest one, she, Carmen, Lucia, sending this in a magnum, we're going to put her casasca, so that you can accompany us together, open cascas, I don't want to be judged by someone who is dependent, who is just a judge, who comes there to the carbo, because of that, and who has no independence to judge, God gives me free to be judged by a judge, which is not independent, in a partial honest and ethical, Carmen, Lucia, president of the Electoral Superior Tribunal, this is a phrase that was known, even in a magnum, which she was born in an event that is called without women, there is no democracy, a female representation, in front of the political violence of gender, it was in the Brazilian University, that she preferred this speech, in a important question, we're talking here, that without women there is no democracy, we're talking here of a important question that she put, that all judge or all professional who has really died for the profession, should be honest, correct, ethical, all these synonyms, which we should demand from all professionals in the world, but not always like that, and she says that God is free to be judged by a judge who is not a judge. Look, the Ministry of Carmen, Lucia, before when I liked her, when she did something good, it's been a long time she didn't do it, until she called Carmen, now she didn't call more, the Ministry of Carmen, Lucia, and I was asking if there was a taxi or some taxi in the plate, and she said that to record them and try to change their opinion, because she also recently said, our taxi drivers think that the Federal Supreme Court is a shame, that it is absurd, she didn't understand, even though the voice of the people, generally the voice of God, and also the amount of hypocrisy, is this recent, I remember that of a scene, when it was put in the Federal Supreme Court, what the women of the 8th of January, she likes so much, to raise the flag of feminism, etc., they were afraid and one of the ladies made a mistake in the causes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We had that iconical, unfortunately, in the time of the Dodd, I remember that of Rosa Verber, and the Ministry was there, because she didn't defend her, because she didn't stop, you are totally partial to the people, you are not taking the independence. You are not honest, you are producing scene more grotesque, so ridiculous, that gives HIV to see the Supreme Court of the Federal Court, she didn't say that. And then there is another recording, she is in the first term. So the parts of her very friend, yes, the friend of the heart, she has a platonic love for the Minister of the Children's, which when she looks, I follow the judgment, you can say, she looks for the Minister of the Children's, she brings us eyes and it is the whole time of the Minister, she ends up in the first term, alfinizing in a way like this, Jacosa knows, that gives impression even if it is a sorry Minister, but it is the impression that I have, the lady could give you a little more respect. With Flavio Dino, she gets Flavio Dino doing little peat, a little like that, who is drunk, right, it seems that I don't know, and she responds, right, and she puts feminism, it doesn't look like that, it's so ridiculous, so out of the proposal, everything, which is to be the Minister of the Supreme Court of the Federal Court, which I don't understand with a false face of saying that, the judge in the Supreme Court of the Federal Court sorry dear, there is no, even so, God, I'm free, the lady has such a courage to look at the press, I'm not going to get the women, the press of the January 8th, for the lady who recently, with 68 years, a super serious health treatment, was put again in the prison for the Minister of the Children's, you have courage to look at this person's face and say that there is honesty in this position of the Supreme Court of the Federal Court, that there is, in fact, in partiality for this lady, she wanted to know if she has the face of the lady to look deeply in the eyes of this lady, she did not say anything, and repeated this sentence and she said to her God, I'm free, really, God gives us free, so little and so little, so much we love, sad, that is in the Supreme Court of the Federal Court. And there to Lucas and to Flávio could also disabuffate about this speech of Carmen Lucia. It is our support of the Supreme Court of the Federal Court, the lady responsible for the phrase, the Brazil has 213 million digitizers. What are we shooting? Small shooting, now she says, next, open the pages of Carmen Lucia, God, I'm free to be julied by a judge who does not be honest, close the pages, she gave this statement in an hour, about democracy, she who also occupies the Presidency of the TSE, Flávio. And that does not be in partiality, let's remember that Carmen Lucia also, that person who says, ah, this is insure preve, I'm confessing, this is insure preve, but it's just until October, four years ago. Carmen Lucia, when she confesses censorship, she confesses censorship, that is, she confesses that she has a coup in democracy, the Brazilian, and that she is part of the dictatorship of the TSE. That was then confessed by her own Carmen Lucia, she forgets that censorship is preve, put by her own and by her scubaeans on the TSE, that there is no basis in the constitution, it will against the constitution, it was an anti-constitutional constitution, anti-democratic, so it was a coup, perpetrated by Carmen Lucia, leaving behind all her scubaeans from the TSE, the TSE, the TSE was made to prejudge the right and favor only exclusively, your candidate, there is a thing in the German, in the Iran, in the North Korean, in Venezuela, in the communist China, the other person there says, the SETF, Mr. Chairman, all our fans of the Chinese regime are interpellated, refuted, obitempered by someone SETF, that is, everything he is saying is that the SETF, yes, there is nothing, the SETF, are pariahs, are politicals, are part of the US, we in Brazil, we are the 200 small, not we are played by law, not we are played by pariahs and fairs, we are played by our political positions, why are you going to stop the Chinese characters, because you made some Chinese, you tried to prejudge someone, no, it's just for the right, it's just for the side, that the Carmen Lucia openly does not like it, it's there precisely to defend the left not to defend the law, as I leave you in the morning, the morning, the day is bad, all of them there, the SETF also from the TSE, so in this sense, what is lacking in Brazil, but once again, are mechanisms and possibilities, the administrative, depenates to be able to put the TSE ministers, the TSE ministers, because all of us are put, even when we are innocent, but when the TSE ministers of the TSE do not understand the law, there is no problem, they continue to be playing, we are being dishonest in their law, it is constitution and completely pariahs and fairs. And there is a question regarding the Carmen Lucia, which is the following, she was dedicated in the first mandate of the government in 2006, the time of the General Sons Jobin, that is, this lady is in Supreme Court 20 years ago and there is still more three, because now the month that comes open she completely 72 years of age and she can stay in the cargo until 75, so let's say let's stay there with Carmen Lucia about 23 24 years, this is a problem, this is another discussion, the reform of the judiciary power, this oxygenation that there is not by the Supreme Court of Federal Court, for example, the legitimacy is indicated now, it can be 35 years old, the wall has more than 20 in front of it, so they follow it, and the person thinks that there is high intention, that story tells you to discuss a mandate, people say 8, 10, it can be 12, it is much less than they have been in fact, but it is a discussion there, it is an important discussion, not a discussion, I think it is not just an important discussion, it is an Esperadora, that is, we need to change the STF, we have the worst composition of STF in all history, maybe, I will not say in all the West, because there are Poland, I don't know, there are some other countries there that have a composition of STF, so terrible, that is, the country works, law works, but who is playing everything in the Supreme Court destroys all democracy of these countries, so it is exactly a long model, the urban has made a few measures there precisely to tell STF something that we need to imitate here in Brazil, but it does not give this current composition, we feel, we learn, we want the secret, look at the inquiry, it is not open for Judaism, it is open for delegated, it is a question, inquiry is not made for you to know what is being done and destroying everyone, inquiry is the best mechanism of investigation already invented, when inquiry inquiry is done, inquiry is not inquiry, if I am the same person who plays here, who is supposed to be victim, it is simply a mechanism of the executor, of the destroyer of individuals, individuals, of privacy of people, the Carmen Lucia is part of the problem of Brazil and once again, STF, even if the person is not STF, in the TSE here, it should exist, that's just a mechanism censored to the left continue to be brother in Brazil. If you have not seen the comments on the chat, the person has been all-wheeled to Carmen Lucia, which I did not want to read here, but above the debate we have the program to take care of. Exactly because we are not a democracy because of Carmen Lucia and other people. And more with all the who do not look at it because they will enjoy themselves, let's predict the chat, the face of our audience, because in the meantime we have Giro Brasil, the quadruple of all here in Tafera, that little time, come our super scientist who lost the new Santos of Rafa, look at the chair, it's a nice, nice chair, then Flávio, tell us the importance of turning the chair of the crowd. When you turn the chair of the crowd, you have an enormous advantage, you can read our column, you can follow everything that the crowd publish, the magazine at the end of the month and you are supporting journalism, you know, independent, the journalism that is here in the correct circle, that it does not depend on the government, it does not depend on the political A, B, C, we can do it, we can do it, our journalism with independence, if you are free, then do a part, always have a promotion here, wait for you, you have direct ebooks, even documentaries, the guy is always talking about the cross-christians, for example, all of this just you are the sign of the Gazeta do Pove, so do not stop to sign, because that's how you can have this journalism here, delivers in your house every day. Which is your column this week, the Manchette, just to give a spoiler, the column is the following, right? This one that was fun, right? Tell us, Andre Mendoza should create the secret inquiry to investigate the banquemaster, you know what? You need to do now, since the banquemaster will be revealed in other ministers, which is the only possibility of Andre Mendoza saving the democracy, the commander will say, open the secret inquiry, do not let anyone see it, it is the owner and investigator, the owner and the doctor, and you will not be supposed to see it, Andre Mendoza, if you save the democracy, put all the proofs in your hand against Flavio Dino, morals, minds, it is embarrassing, and then we save the democracy in Brazil. You know what was to have passed the title, right? Now you have put everything, come on. The next comment, look, there, we still have deputies correct, it's a hug for Adriana Ventura, then we send your name where you are watching us, who is more with us? Look, Fabia is great, Brazilian, federal, it's a value, it's a good thing for you to be with us, Jefferson Souls here in Italy, following, look, half day and thirty-three minutes now here, and this already has a time that he sent, right? If I'm not mistaken, it was 8.33 a.m. that he sent, but we will leave it with him, right? Look, the flag of Anderson, the sound of Flavio has the flag of Anderson, I'm sure it will grow, but he has no courage. Massachusetts, United States, Vanderson, a hug for you, in American lands, look, the Giselle Carvalho, good day, the flag of the wonderful, she speaks of Talbate here, in the interior of São Paulo, my friend, a kiss for you, look, Constantino Cortas, he was just giving his card to him, what does he have? Good day, Carla, Lucas and Guerrero of the freedom of the press, best day of Brazil, do you agree? I'm a hug for you, my friend, for all the family, look, the Sunday, good day to my people, our guest, he speaks of La Goa da Conceição Floria Nópolis, Santa Catarina, always a kiss for you, thanks my friend, thank you for the affection of your audience, come back always, also, it's always with us, good day to the newspapers, Lucas, Carla, Anne, commentaries and all the team, God bless our fifth party, thank you, well, I'll go back to the cap, because the fifth party of the four, Giro Brasil, come on, come on, our super editor, Rafael Fantinho, the most dear scientist of the coffee, with the people's Gazeta, who are happy, happy, happy, chatty, happy, because, no Marmarco Goa 1, but the happy, because the result was negative, everything is good, good, good, the coffee, good day, Lucas, I think once again, I prefer to go to Giro with the news, that if, in football, things are always taking place, it's not different in the political, in the electoral, in fact, it's not in the political, in the ambassadors, always, the thing is hot, but, in this period, in this middle of March, especially, the temperature has risen. The great play, let's say, without doing a football analogy, the great play in the fourth year, but the football of Neymar was played by Flavio Bolsonaro, and Sergio Moro, who announced a alliance to dispute the government in Paraná. That ends up mixing, not only in the state in Paraná, but also nationally, because of the ambitions of the Governor-General, Ratinho Junior, provable, according to our observations, the choice of Roberto Cassabio until the end of this month, as president, to the president's president, of the PSD. With this alliance, that still has no confirmation of the word, which is also very probable because of the situation that we have brought in the matter, and also here in the coffee, the situation of it with the political group Ricardo Barros, the Federation, the UNIUM Progressive Union, so this definition of the word is also something probable that may happen in this month, but what we have already done is a very strong alliance with Moro Flavio Bolsonaro, which is a guarantee to talk about a very strong speaker in the state of Paraná. Sergio Moro is considered for some events, for research, recent, as a favorit to this post, before starting the election, of course, that the Senado can change with the electoral campaign, Ratinho Junior, who knows who will be there, all this, but at that time, the report to the photo that the researchers do is from Sergio Moro Candidato, as a favorit. So this is a guarantee, the Spanish electoral to make Bolsonaro Paraná fifth, passed his fifth major electoral college in 2025, passing the Rio Grande do Sul in the country, and also on the other side, he solves the problem of Sergio Moro, which with the Federation, which still needs this last little guy, this last wave of TSE, but it's likely that this happens. The Federation, the UNF is a different from the Collegations, which can have these conditions and different arrangements in the State in the case of a federal and it's vertical, that is, it has to follow what the National Stabeles, so, so, there is also a few athletes in the States, that in some places, the Union is on the side, the Progressist is on the other side, there is also a lot of to do this arrangement. This solves the problem of Moro, he must talk with the Union Progressist, give a a verdict to the end, to press the last if he will be candidated by the Union by the Union Progressist or not, even so, he has the support of the PPL, if the Progressist insists not to this wave, this emulation in the conventions for Moro, he migrates the PPL and goes candidated by the PPL to the Government of Paraná, which has already provoked a huge head of the Palacios Guaçu, Ratinho Junior, already begins to move in the bastidores to try to avoid a greater strike than it was in the Cauerto This is a known name, in this sense, it ends up being a very strong name, to realize that the blow of the Bolsonaro, and this blow of return, to be a humorous person, shows a force, mainly between people of the Lava Jato, class media that is not interested in politics, but it is against corruption, which I think Lava Jato is a very important thing for Brazil, that is, you have a new symbol there, very strong, even with a symbol in Paraná, strong, then for the government, it will give a bubble there, on the left, on the person there who was wanting to separate the Lava Jato from the right, what is our next theme, then, Ravel? In the next theme, we will go from the son, Ratinho, to father Ratinho, and also cross the border of Paraná to Santa Catarina, and it is well there in the border, Bruno Máffo, editor of Brazil, also, made a lead to respect for the investment of Ratinho, father, the representative, then also all the repression that had there, the development of him, in society, involving Taya, that resort, in the north of Paraná, that there is a part of the talk of the day, of the talk, that was with the bank, to invest in the borough, also Ratinho, father, was there, we will say, as a participant, the society, you have part of this business too, and in this event, Bruno Máffo shows here, Ratinho, father, has plans, invests already in a resort that is in the city of Garuva, it is a strategic point of logistics, the proximity between Garuva and the port of Tapua, the little village of Garuva, Garuva is there in the BX-11, you know, the C11 is already there in the city of Garuva, so thinking about the port in the road, Garuva became there, we will say, a north town, of North Catarinense in the logistics issue, that is why there are many investments in this part, both of Galpons, and companies in intermediaries in this segment, which happens that Garuva's city also has a characteristic, that is known as the sub-continental, so, in the Rio's issue, the CERA is allied, so, the natural landscapes of Garuva are beautiful, because they know mountains, rivers, and these attractions, besides the proximity, with the city of John and Ville, the port of Tapua, Tapua is a place that has many beaches, also in the Catarina, has grown a lot, Bahia da Babitonga, all this context, involving these investments. So, Ratinho Júnão, sorry, Ratinho Paio, he spent the presenter, he spent these investments, and the mayor of CERA, which is, let's say, this condominium resort, residential resort, of 375,000 square meters in this area, in this region, and has been posted, both the company and the corporation, in this local, exactly to attract these tourists, who have this interest, in a fishing, to meet the Real Palmeital, which is one of the main points there, that attract these tourists to the region, a region that is also known by the port fish, canoeage, cross-broad, cyclorotas, 15 km, making this connection with the village of Aguória, which is a beach, which already belongs there, it is a historic beach, which belongs to the French, let's say, it is a continental beach, of the French, which is in Bahia da Babitonga, with many attractions, like Cachoeira, so this is a strategic investment of the father's hat, in a region that has become known by the logistic question, but also, a new, let's say, the tourist town of Santa Catarina. And there is also a question, talking about this empresarial question of the father's hat, the representative, everyone already knows, some time ago, the son of him, the governor of Paraná, candidate, and he has been placed in the manchettes, he was in a particular period, Ratinho knows that this is also a inflow, the image of his son, he has the same name, he is there in the second time in the history of the country, in the open channel, so all this, I think, he has been influenced, everyone turned the photos to his program, and that also impusses, this question, I was seeing this resort that he invested in the solar panel, and it seems that he advocated a press collective to talk, something that he did not do before in other investments, but it must be there a agreement with the son. Well, Rafa, what is the result of the Brazilian today? On the third theme, we will bring a plan, we can say until the use of the federal government, to the FBI sector, which is a sector that Brazil is still very behind, because of the choices in the past, but it is a segment that Brazil needs to move forward, especially in the logistic theme, even as alternative, to the road of the area, all this matter is involved in the countries' ferroviais. The federal government has the plan to do other ferroviais in just one year. What seems to be something like something in the country seems a bit different from the reality, because of everything that is involved, these legal laws of concessions. In this case, according to the Ministry of Transport, there would be 9000 ferroviais and a 60 billion, sorry, 600 billion in the Brazilian flag system. This is not really what we need to do. We will be concretized because, in the paper, the plan is very good, the National Security Policy, has a lot of strategic points, in different regions of our country, such as the destabilization of the Coedern-Minas Rio. And others, we can always always be in the news, which, for example, is Maliaçu, talking about the region of Paraná, Santaritarina, Rio Grande do Sul, Maliaçu is something that is still very controversial, even to make a new condition, to retire the administrator, to make a new concessions, the states have different positions, Rio Grande do Sul also works in the federal government, for that, the site of the paper, the Maliaçu is also called Oeste, which is known as the southern federal panel, and another that we can highlight here is the northern federal government, the Maranhão and the Pará and the federal government, which is very important, in the water business. So, the federal government has shown and interested in doing something in the media, in just a few months, a year has already started. So, if this really goes out of the paper, as the government has announced, it will go out partially, which would be an advance, for the logistics, for the federal government, or if this will not pass again, another frustrated plan in this area, which is so important, but at the same time, it is a long story, it is so disturbing in the country. I gave a lecture on geopolitical strategy, I was just commenting on this question about sports, aeroportes, and the production of the inter-Brazilian production, and how everything is concentrated in São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, in practice, and the Nordeste is completely involved, because, other countries, there are no roads, there is nothing decent. The minister Renan Filho has reclaimed the Tarsizio, saying, oh, you're coming? I want to release now, things that Tarsizio released. The name is very curious, in the list of the ODEBREST, because, well, part of these licitations always involve a tram between a political and a large company, because they end up being a commodity there, that Brazil has a historical, of lava, of petroleum, of monthly, and many other things to bring. Very curious to this, it's good, we have more ferrovia, and as these licitations are made, especially in the hands of Renan Filho, I think, sometimes, it's better to leave, you know, how Tarsizio did it, ensuring a little better, seeing what people will be involved in this, what will be released, because, after all, we will end up paying much more, what should be then. Thank you very much, Rafa Lucas, has your last record there? I'm going to ask, too, our super Rafa, who had known here, another one, who is in the heat, thank you, thank you, until this week that comes. This week that comes, let's see the best Santos in Brazil, and this one, it will go to the COP. This is the deal, because the heat has a record there, ready for you. For once, the result is that the heat is a record that has been measured in the last year. And they have more space with the possibility of residential consumers, to choose who to buy electrical energy. For the new sector regulator, you can see that on the screen the possibility of migrating will be a gradual process that starts with industries Brazil has more than 500 commercialized energy. That is, the competition is large. This means that the promotion of reduction in the account of loss can really be concretized. And then we will end up, because it is going to choose the best option. In the time of counter-energy, will it be possible to negotiate prices, prices and even the type of source, whether solar, eolithic or hydroelectric. It is also a way to have the possibility of buying energy for the energy level. This is where the energy comes from. It is good that we have these options as well. Let's do the next one. Now I will call Fabi to talk about a quite common question. We have commented on something a week, especially what is happening in the city of Iraq and also with the United States. And then there is a news that Russia and Cuba ignore the sanctions of the United States and so negotiating the oil-free control. It means that we do not interest sanctions, what interests is what we decided. And it also occurs in the question, putting Brazil here, because Brazil comes helping Cuba also with the media, in addition to food. So let's ignore the sanctions and let's do what is determined by our minds. Fabi. Well, Cuba is in the mode of total survival. What we have noticed is that there are full chaos. There is no energy. People are returning, attacking the seeds of the country, the population is with. I have a lot of shame when I think about Cuba. We know that it is a little bit of joy. Who is there? It is because there is no condition to leave. So Cuba is very hard. It is a island. It has difficulty for the plantation of several foods. You need energy not only for light, but even for the production of the little they are doing. And the formula is absurd. So human condition is very degrading. So Cuba, with the regime, the attempt to keep up with the leadership in the country, will make agreement with whom it is. And we know that they have a very large alignment with Russia. So this is important. Yesterday we had the announcement of the Lula saying that it will send food, various food sources to Cuba. So Brazil complies this. Because it should be prudent, but it is nothing that the Lula is, but it is trying to keep the external policy. It should be kept quiet at the moment that it is not necessary to call a bridge for us. Because when we know that it will send food, if this happens, if it happens, if it happens, it will not go to the people. We already know how the regime works. Brazil already participated in the financing of the Cuban regime, with the most doctors. So we have there, it is quite, with a very strong brokerage, because we already have there, even the precedents. We also had, or even a shock, a bomb of Ecuador, in Colombia, something like that, it was not yesterday, it was before yesterday. So yes, it is sensitive, the world is sensitive. And in relation to Russia, Russia goes, the big fight, really, is against the United States, versus Russia and versus China, which is the block there, the east of the sea. And this will continue to survive. And the crisis of oil, the crisis of what we had yesterday, of destruction in the Saudi Arabia, of the Zine that makes gas, gas that made Europe, it will feel more and consequently also Brazil. Look, Brazil has a news that was confirmed also, that several oil companies that have arrived here with, with a load, bought by Brazil, were away, because Brazil does not want to pay more. And in this time, who pays more is taking. So even in Brazil, it will also be recorded, because Brazil does not look at this issue of oil, objectively, frontal, Brazil should be in the international parity of oil prices, we already have a defazation of the price, this ends up doing what oil is. It assumes a completely unnecessary risk, and then we should have this parity. And we have a degree of the trucks to explore, if today, if not, for some reason, from the federal government, I do not know if it will be a success already in the week that comes, because the government does not have, as a guarantee, that the saying does not have substantial increase, obviously, the price of oil is more than $100. There is no such thing that this person will fall, because we have a lot of destruction of the Zusinas, in the middle of the inclusive, the Iran has attacked countries that were allied, where we had a absurd destruction of a Zina in Qatar. The images are, as it seems, the Medi-Mex. So, Brazil is not related to this seriousness, as it is to look here for us internally, it is trying to add the Cuban regime in a flow attempt, maybe, to keep some alive there in the São Paulo's forest, it is a true vergonya. We are trying to grab us in frozen walls, which are desmoring, and the Brincadeira has already been doing it for a while, but I do not think it is here. Fabi, I will quickly tell you what you can do in the comments, before I send it to São Paulo, about the health of Jair Messez Bolsonaro. I will bring you here the bulletin for us to be able to accompany together. So, the Medi-Cardologist, Brazil Caird, in this room, that the President Bolsonaro presented a revolution in the quadruple, although it is even slower. There are many aspects. It presented a good clinical evolution with the best appearance of the demographic and the best important ones of the inflammatory markers. There is a program of motherhood with anti-biotic therapy and follows the intensive clinical support and has a respiratory therapy and a doctor's motorism. Fabi, I will pass it to you, because when we talk about it, it was with very important questions. There are details. The question of the lung, where he had this bronchospiration, of this question of the nails, when he was suffering, he bronchospirovomit, then we had this infection, also in the kidneys. So, all the various cancers of the body are very committed, and extremely serious in this situation. Well, let's imagine a person who is healthy with less young age is born with a spirit. It is an effective risk, it goes to the hands of this infection. So, I think that this is the case with the juridical conclusion. It is the focus of trying to explain to him that he thinks the owner of the Brazilian Ministry of the Children of Morais, that the situation of the Bolsonaro occurred because of the papudinha. I'm seeing the very famous Bolsonaro, the medical students, very grateful to the papudinha saved the life of the Bolsonaro. He saved the time of emergency, but the papudinha also occasioned this problem in Bolsonaro. If he had slept with a priest on the side of the nurse, the husband, the brother, the child, he would not have happened. That happened. Or his body had been for 15 minutes, 20 minutes, half an hour. Not until this morning, the mother's mother was free with the two. It was her 7th career. This, the pregnancy, she was already in the hospital, without the correct oxygenation. The oxygenation was low, the height of 82 is really worrying. It is high and looks like it was still still going to recover. And then the doctor even explained, and also had a tweet, a publication of Bolsonaro, which explains, and not only the doctor, but also the explanation of them, which I think is also very worrying. Every phenomenon, every... everything that happens in the lungs is getting cicatrices. There is risk of fibrosis. And they already have risks because of the fact in their own complete abdomen. From him. He has a series of questions. It is necessary that the Bolsonaro president buy a domicile prison. At least, we know that it is an injustice, but it is a matter of life or death. He needs to leave the hospital and directly to the house. In the future, it can be done by all the hospitals, in the door, put there... It is a ball, this thing of Bolsonaro to understand the flow, and all this is a ball. Let's get to the facts. So, I hope that the defense, I know it was protocoled by a doctor, so that this question was already made by the defense. I, for those who understand it, it was made even by this doctor, by the hospital, not only by a doctor, who responds, and this hospital has, it is quite known to say that the Bolsonaro cannot, but this guy in the kitchen is more than put in the panic, the dog, the dog, and he falls, and that wonderful, right? That was his race, that he was not aware of, I don't know how many kilometers, no, guys. This is not life, it is, it is, it is, it is very big risk, and my receive, the Minister of the Moraes is doing what he has always done. He will ask for a loan, for the loan, which takes him to the hospital, to be made, he will ask for, for that, for what we say that he is sleeping, that is the ball in this manifesto, and then, in the end, we will be in doubt, if he will be able to do it or not. Just to close my comment, what they say, even the violation of the press's journalists, is that there is a division in the federal Supreme Court, and it is a shame if it is true that I, even, I am shocked, that the Minister of the Armed Forces, is telling him that he needs to be able to come to this domicile prison, together with Dremendon, to the Knowns, and in Fuchs. So, they are four ministers, and that he is against, that he already said, also, the Dino, the Carmen Luce, that she is in comfort, with justice, and you can say it. And the Polugone, I know that it is not a minister, but he does part of what I just said. And there is no information about the faking and the use of it. But nothing matters, because who decides this, primarily, is the Minister of the Armed Forces, and the first term. And in the first term, there is already a majority, so, to put the President Bolsonaro again in the Papudinho. I hope that the press and the good sense of these Jews, I don't know if it's very Jewish, but these men and women, and the only woman, the head of this priest, is if, if he tries to make the right of the humanitarian prison. Fabii, and that this runs fast, because in this situation, everything, second, tells, when it comes to health. I'm going to move to you here, the result of our enquete today, we opened the seat so that you can also put your vote, your comment. Vice President Alkman, says that the citizens of the trucks are not in a sense at the moment. What is your opinion? 87% says that, yes, yes, I'm a man. With 7% of the government's measures in the Jardin, and with 6% of the agreement, partially, with 4.2 thousand votes. I would like to thank Fabii for today, Fabii, thank you very much. A good, a good amount of money for you, and we'll see. Thank you, Carla, for your usual gentile. People here, so I'll leave a kiss to Curitiba, which I've been here, a Curitiba public, to my friends, Lucas and Flávio. I would like to send a special kiss to Lucas's voice, which is there in the studio, and this voice of Lucas, I would like to send you a message. You have a value-value and his education is exemplary. It's a reason for pride. I see you for the family. I'm very happy that you're here and coming to this network. That's good. I don't have the other friends here, but we're very happy to see that she's participating in the event actively, and it's good. Fabii, thank you very much for today, Lucas, a giant kiss for you, to your voice, to hug and kiss, and to Flávio, we'll see you tomorrow. Thank you, Dupla. I'm happy with you, Carla. Thank you very much for the love of you, and we're now in the morning. It's four more minutes left. Flávio, we can't stop talking to the president, that tomorrow, completely 71 years of life, 21 of March, he's been arrested, now specifically, he's been interned. At the Interna, there's the intensive therapy at the State Hospital in Brasília, about the command of the Dr. Clau de Ubirulini, Here, always, we respond to our messages, negotiations to update ourselves on the present health, Boncidiga, victim of a homicide attempt in the campaign of the Republic of 2018, and that the defense now tries to take a very expensive humanitarian prison that can go to the House. Flávio? Dr. Claudio, who even assists us all day, when we try to talk to him, but I'm not watching, I'm watching him, when I'm just doing operations, he's working there for the morning, he sent a hug for Dr. Claudio. When we talk about the best in the case of the beginning, I want to call a lot of attention to the word. The impression that he improved, so, in fact, he had a grotesque worst so he went to UTI, and then this worst is going up a little, but he didn't return to normal, his words are winning, after that, Sorá, Tronique, Roger Correia, all the caters, and he's like, it's a solo, I'm soloing like you did the same thing, he was victim of a homicide attempt commenting on the program 1, and I'll talk about it again. When you're going to do a test of a person's operation, I know, he died of pneumonia, because years before he took a fever, the death caused him to be a fever, it's pneumonia, the death caused him to be like this, you can ask him for any medical test, here it takes me to test, you have to do that, so, in the case here, all this complication of the health of Bolsonaro was not possible, taking care of the necessary ones, precisely because, because the Lord, the Lord, the child's child, it should also be placed in the death case, and the STF does everything to kill Bolsonaro, we know that, does everything to judge the situation. His treatment was even, he had a small traumatic in the cell, he was more than 24 hours until he was given the test, you see how the STF is worried, worried with the law, worried with us, worried with the democracy, especially. Well, we wanted to leave a hug here to the Lucas vote, but I'll only get half, I wanted to send a hug to the Lucas vote, but if we were lying to the Lucas, then there's another thing, so, this part, I'll have to kill here, because if not only, who suffers, who is in the studio, so, I was going to kill Carla, I'm not going to suffer, with my suffering, so I'm going to lie down in the middle, but let my hug here, also for Lucas vote, it's a joy to be able to have here in the studio, to be able to implement here, leave my hug here, also for our dear audience, it's important. Well, right, you said the plane, thank my voice, thank you all so much, thank you all so much, leave my uncle who is here, everyone, just talking about my voice, but a kiss for my family, my uncle, everyone who is here, always giving our audience, thank you all, our technique, now you already know, you are with the last analysis reprise, yesterday at the time of the 30 minutes, then come her, Maria Nabraga with the Super 100 Rodeos, I will also be there at the time of the 19 hours, captured by a Marx Toze, the last analysis, and inedit, if you still don't remember, of our club of members, please go there, think with a little bit, because it helps us more, our work here in the town of Pove, we don't have law, we don't have a real, money, the federal government, we depend 100% of you. The coffee with the town of Pove comes back tomorrow, from 7 o'clock in the morning, extraordinary morning, I won't be over the command, totally with our super carol, there, creative, because it will be, having the honor of being a Mariana Braga, in the 100 Rodeos here, I'll leave you a little hug. Thank you, by the dear one of the audience, stay with God, a good fifth, and see you later. Brazil can stop again, it's that representatives of the truckers, of various states, are threatening to move a general grave in the country. And then you already saw, right? The government, that in front of the insides, the approval is very low, is concerned. This is just one of the themes of the last news, that is starting now, and which is Paulo Pousoloa Fijúneur, has the honor to present today, in my friend's place, Marcos Tozi. And there's more, in this edition, you also follow the following themes. Lulinha, open company of Gaveta in Spain, while CPMI and NSS show their relations, the relations of Lulinha, with the care of the NSS. I'm not a fan, huh? Another subject, Gil Marmendes, continues interfering in the research work of legislative laws and already has a furious senator with this situation. Gil Marque must publish until sixth year, the vote of him, as the prison of the Trabi-Keyru banquete, Daniel Vorkaro, which has generated many expectations. I think it's over, it's over. Let's talk about the meeting between Flávio Bolsonaro and Alexandre de Morais. I believe if it was, but the minister would be signing for the possibility of the prison domiciliar of the president of Bolsonaro's place. And to finish, we will talk about geopolitical. It's that Chancellor Mauro Vieira thought it was better to declare that there is no secret base in the Chinese installed in the country to the contrary that many are saying about it. And now I must implement the commentaries of today, on my side, I have him, Francisco, and I'm sorry, I'm going to take it. I'm going to take it, greetings, Guida, all the day. Congratulations, you're welcome again. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Well, you have the courage of the SS, you have the courage of the Gazeta, right? Good night to you. One in three, you have the bar, our boss. The bar is behind the cameras. Exactly. Good night, good night, your father, good night. In the hotel, we have his courage directly. We have his delta, good night, your father. Good night, Paulo. Our guy, is very good at what he did. Good night, it's Corcingh, and the wonderful agency of the Gazeta. Well, so, Brazil always prepares for more a degree of the truck. At least, this is the expectation. Is it going to be the same? Just to remember, the last time we faced a similar situation, was in 2017. And at that time, the degree generated chaos and contaminated the government Michel Temer. 2017-18. Now I'm not going to remember it. 2018-18. So, 2018, Corrigina here, 2018. And look at the political situation in that time, it wasn't that bad, as today. What leads us to ask our commentaries, how a degree of this magnitude can impact our economy and mainly the electoral scenario in 2016. Tip. I'm the same. It's okay. I was here to give you a conversation about the beginning. I was asking Guilherme, to be the one who remembers the old one, who wants to play a game. Some time of the 2016, like us, and we live in the early days of the inflation, where it was very common in the supermarkets and there were no products, or, so, depending on whether one had one or another, and you saw that it was going to be used. You didn't know that you needed to do something and it was something very common. But with the normality, we say, and another thing, it's also a final of the times. The amount of degrees, taking degrees of public service as in federal universities, for example, they became more and more rare. It's hard to see today these great degrees that paralyze everything only when there is a connection with the public sector. I think the last big one was the one of the best in 2018. And it was funny. I'm saying this because I remember in 2018, as many of us very used to have never passed through that. The fear of the streets of the fault is almost like a serious war in the Alquinded. It's like, it's going to be all over the world. People start running around the streets and buy things. It's hard to see. It's always hard to see. People are always hard to see. In the pandemic, it was the same thing. Everyone bought the same thing with the same paper. This means a lot to say. It means a lot to say. It's a lot of things but it means a little bit. So, there's something I'm taking into consideration because I think this kind of thing happens if it's going to happen. If it's going to happen if it's going to happen if it's going to happen if it's going to happen. So, this has an economic impact and therefore, as a Electoral Law, I don't know how much more than the Brazilian law with these things. I have an impression that we live in a time in generations, even ancient times, I think, that we have already entered this. And that we don't have a lot of difficulty and we don't have a lot of patience for things. We are completely completely satisfied with the amount of things. If we were even the judiciary that everyone knew that when they were able to judiciary, it was better to forget what it takes years. Nowadays, the actions of the judiciary that happens in the third, changes in the fourth, already has a development in the fifth, everything is very isolated, everything is happening very quickly. So, I think that the people do not have more tolerance for a lot of things. The people do not have more patience for a lot of things. And the people are having a tremendous ease to occupy the governments. Here, I'm not saying that the law is not. If it were a good scenario, it would be the same impact. It is very difficult governments to counter this. This is only appealing to a populist the most cheap and the most destructor of our future. Giving everything that is asked for the trucks so that the economy does not fall. In the electoral year, as this, with the law so complicated, so in the short in several ways, something like that is basically the kind of the bubble for the opposition if that happened. What is good we take into account because it is very of the Greve, maybe it can be inflated politically more than for a matter of the existence or the economy. That is, I think if this Greve happens and she lasts some days reasonably to create that climate of the Alquin Dead, I think it is something inevitable with the electoral impact will be gigantic, because when it is in the middle of the country, it does not go out of the country, everyone is in the middle of the bag, the big hole, the big hole is the corruption, the economy is not so much, but if you put this in the table, it is very difficult to the law to reverse its immense rejection. And it is more a reason to see that even it does not go out with the candidate. Because I always talking here. I am just a lawyer with the candidate, when it is confirmed to appear in the TSE records, until there, I don't know about the way the thing goes, I don't think he will walk away. What is it, I want to be in the position of the economic and electoral economy, but I want to also know that there is this expectation of the right that there is a heavy, heavy, chaos, just to have some kind of electoral impact in the 2016. With certainty, Paulo, I think that there is a series of events and factors here that enter the abolition, all together in the same panel of press. First, an external political movement in the US with Iran. And there is outside of our control, outside of the control of the Lula, or anything in this sense. What happened? Iran closed the army of Urmuz, where the large part of the oil is passed in the world, the oil bar, that comes from the oil, that comes out during the average oil producers, and distributes the whole world. Then to allow it to buy oil importation. We really to fight not to worry. And here in Brazil, the effect is a little different. Why? Because the letters from the cities of Europe or south of Asia are Spotdore. We are producing oil and we sell more that we buy. Our balance is positive. And that's what the reality Sleep dollar is falling in real relation because we sell oil to a more expensive value. However, everything is not in the same way. The diesel does not produce, we do not export in the same way as oil. That is, we need to import. And what is the big problem? The trucks that run Brazil out, are getting the markets and the months taking the sun, the field, even the transport, even the supermarket, all these trucks use diesel. And then diesel exploded from the value here in Brazil. Only the petrol, for example, had a 70% of the price international in the bomb, fired the price of diesel, passing from 10 reais in some cities. And the trucks can not go up and down this value because the price of diesel is high, but the remuneration takes a lot more to go up. That is, they are in the price of the car, and then the trucks will say no, that's not going to be. It will remember that the Lula, the country's boss, is the government's law. It fired the international parity of the price of the petrol here in Brazil with the rest of the world. That is, it would not be an automatic price, the Brazilian price would not be the same in the value of the rest of the world. This made it possible that there is a difference. At the beginning of the war, this difference was minimal, something of 1.2% of the oil price in Brazil for the rest of the world. With the war, this difference exploded. We are talking about more than 60% of the difference in the price of the oil price in Brazil compared to the rest of the world. That is, there was a price difference that the price was resolved and then the Lula needed to go up to that to the bomb of the bomb. But there were two movements. For this issue of the election this year, obviously, a policy-making issue, the Lula reduced the taxes and taxes on the fuel, especially on the diesel, which is what makes the trucker and all the logistic issue in Brazil increase inflation, because when the truck stops or when the trucker has less, the food gets more expensive. And then all the products in Brazil, in fact, have increased value, increasing inflation. And the Lula to hold a little bit of this in the force of the arm, reduced these tariffs, implored to the governors to reduce the ICMS of the state about this issue of oil and diesel. I tried to make a movement, but I did not give it to hold too much, because the oil price needed to increase almost the same value that Lula reduced the taxes, the value of gasoline and diesel. That is, it was half of them, and now with this paralyzing, this general gray of the trucker, the trend is very bad. The scenario is very bad. We will see people running to the fuel stations to empty your car, generating a large supply of fuel supply stations, because we have every time less in the views coming to Brazil to carry out diesel, gas, oil, oil and oil. That is, when oil is too much, the price of oil in the neighborhood is too much, too much in Brazil and in relation to other countries, the more countries and more, the more economy are not good, they are there and come to the others, very less in the view of Brazil. So Lula has a great chadreis to equalize international issue and even a political issue with the United States of America, and Trump wants to talk a little more about today later in the program, with the internal issue of the elections and the degree of the governors. I don't know how he will go out of this, I know that all the last rascals that Lula has put together, he only found himself more. The only positive things for Lula in recent years, since this is the government, were things that did not depend on him, but rather on the other, especially the tariff of Trump in post to Brazil, for example. Let's see now what happens, talk more about my perspective, go from here to the worst. He will go out of this, as always, taking a beer, we can go out exactly. Well, let's see the delta, so delta, I don't know if Lula is referring to the camioneros now and I think you did this analysis there also of the economic and electoral impacts of this degree, if this degree really came out. The camioneros they gathered today afternoon, several camioneros entities as I did not see long time ago, we mentioned here the parallelization of 2018, there were other small parallelizations in 2021, in 2022, until September 7th, there was the manifestation of Bolsonaro's support, but nothing is compared there in the recent years, what happened in 2018, when really the category stopped and not only stopped, but from the ones that have been on the road for 10 days, there is a development of the assessment not only of the supermarket, but the mitigation of our farmhouses, industrial products, products that are necessary for production in scale, for intermediary production, to insert electronic components in products, for those who can give the vision to their production. So it was a quite chaotic episode, and why did this episode happen in late 2018? Because it has been over a year, an increase in the price of diesel of about 50%. And what happened now? Now happened in this beginning of the year, an increase of 20% of the price of diesel. And why are the camioneros so sensitive to this? Because this question is a relevant question, because someone disavowed could think about the following, no? If the price of diesel for the camioneros is only the camioneros will come to the consumer or the tomato service, the industrial producer who will take the service and say, I will increase my price of the fruit, proportional fashion, I could get my taste. Why does this automatic adjustment of the market not happen? For two reasons, the first reason is that the guy mentioned the first reason is the fact that the driver or the camioneros has an automatic adjustment of the costs at the present moment, but he will only be able to repass the costs to the customers in the future the contracts that he does. The current contracts he will continue executing with the price already established in the past. This opens or makes the market of luxury of his. The second reason is that the fuel value he composes there 30-50% of the fruit value of the fruit's cost. This is not only because of the transport's cost, but because sometimes the camioneros will return and not always with a load. So the fuel value ends up being there, very significant in the fruit's value. And the transport environment, today, is a great environment that composes a great measure for autonomous workers, with a lot of competition, and the giants are not so far from who makes the fruit, they are from the contractors, it is the industry, the product, it is the business, and that's all because it's a huge pressure, because there is always someone willing to do the service with a smaller margin, because a camioneros, a camioneros, has already fallen in the pieces and the person is willing to be more open, and that makes the margin reduce a lot. So all of this generates a very large pressure on the camioneros. In 2018, the solution was found there by the government of Temer, to make a different appearance of the camioneros, it was to create a piece, a minimum of fruit, which was established, but it is not made-up. Many times the contracts are made for the value below the minimum of fruit. So the camioneros are now a part of the pressure, by managing this parallelization, working on various entities, to manifest in favor of this, and if it happens, now specifically, the point you asked, if this parallelization happens, that will have a very large effect on the Brazilian evaluation of the consumer about the government in the past, because not only that it is a prejudic, more basic services, access to the tools, products, services, but that, as I said, the production chain is parallel to the production chain, the production of the industry, whether the traditional industry, whether the water industry is today. This is parallel to the operation, and this impacts, as was in 2018, even the own PIB, the Brazilian producer's wealth. It has an economic impact, and as we know, the economic approach directly impacts the evaluation of the president, which is going to be worse today, and it impacts, for consequence, the elections. So this is the current scenario. Lula is in the bodies, he tried to reduce, with a measure of content, of this manifestation of the truck, of this degree, he tried to reduce, the value of federal taxes, did not get a calculation to reduce the state taxes, and this ended up having a only relative effect on the increase of the truck costs, and the truckers continue to be increasing there. Let's see what will happen now, next few days, especially. Well, the truckers say that it is a difficult reality, like the one in the hotel, the guy said here, with an infrastructure that is covered in road traffic, problems of security, and the situation in many others. And now, this equation is going on. The diesel, which the person invented, a lot in the places, in part because of the war in Iran, and in part because of the lack of action of the federal government. But what will be that the federal government could do? But intervention in the fuel market? Well, I want to ask you this question. I thought that he also knew of you. You always bring this side, right? Our memory, etc. If you remember in the 90s, that we had to do this paper, were the oil, oil, oil, oil, they went to the river's area. Every hour, the war had this fear of gas supply, gas and such. And the trucks are doing this until today. And what is the revelator that one of the problems that we have, besides the William, the cross-ceric relation to war, the fuel consumption, the relation to this infrastructure for the trucks, the relations of workers, the commercial workers, we have a problem of infrastructure of the country as a whole, which makes us a reference of certain categories. So something that should have been done a long time ago, with a country of continuing our space-based content, Brazil would have been cut by ferroviais everywhere, where you would have an impact on the dispergis and inclusive, on the speed of transport of the trucks, even on the best of the roads. It does not mean that maybe we had less working trucks, but certainly in conditions much, much better. What I want to say with this, that, in the emergency mode, the margin that the government has to do something is very small, and it is very small to make a result of the effect. What it can do is to make the world and funds raise a series of things and that is the cover of the shortcoming. So you can get a series of things for the trucks, you try to make it hard to make the prices and that is the thing. If you do this here, you will have to take another place. What is the government to have a short time? When we go to the station, the taxes are not getting enough. The government apparently gave us a hand taking with the other. In the emergency mode, and that is what I am worried about. I think the government already the cards that it had to give, it is already using. The possibility that the strike happens even like this, it seems quite large. To get a lot of money, you would need the support of the governors, to get the employees' taxes, to give a kind of relief, because there is not much to do. To get a way, to manage the emergency and the situation. What really solves this is something that depends on strategic thinking of the long-term, something that has to do with infrastructure. And Brazil is pessimistic. We can tell in the fingers the governments who made a long-term structure. And here in the end, there is no ideological value, if they were the government or not. That is why it leaves a structure that loses the way to several other powers. Let's get to the Vargas. The whole dimension of oil, for example, a good part of industrialization, the CLT, for example, the relations of work, everything was more or less structured there, and in a certain way we are still living in a state planned by the Vargas government. Then we have, for example, 50 years in five, built in Brazil. There is an astronomical cost, with a series of problems with relation to this. But the fact that Brazil is there. And in fact, it was used to interiorize the good part of Brazil. A lot of the agro-degoucio, I think, I think it has a relationship with the presence of the government and more in the heart. What was planned was our construction. Very behind. There was something that the JK invented. Fernando Henrique, for example, made an economic structure, that is still happening in the country. So the shock that Brazil would need in terms of infrastructure for the environment of its production, of its load, is something that seems already there is no more space to not do that in some way. And it seems to me that we are very close to get to this moment. We have to invest more than in the populism that gives some money, more people, but with another it takes much more, not only from them, but from the rest of the population. What is the question? I want to know if you have been invited with three questions. Prepare yourself. No, I want to know about you. Look, it will solve Brazil now. What the federal government can do? What the federal government will do? And I want to know also about you, taking the hook of the Chico, but there is only 4 or 8 years of thought. I think this is the end of the future of Brazil. It is a young 24 year old video. I don't know. Look, it's going to be a joke. It's like there is a limit. It's going to be a joke. But the government is also asking. I would not like to add to the calcities of Mr. Lula not even to his ministers because now there is a management of crisis. This is the truth. If you don't control it, if you don't control the oil price international, if you don't control the war of the United States, Israel, and the Iran. If you don't control the flux of the oil industry. What you can control is from here to inside, from the door to inside. How do you solve this? Along the bridge, the Chico gave the solution here. The right was to build ferrovia in Brazil. Especially bringing what is produced here in the south, in the east, Central East, by the water. To the sides, to the sides, because it is a big problem in the water in Brazil, is first transport, second storage. Because it produces a lot. It can transport a little, and it has a lot of difficulties. It's clear that in the long term, the solution is very easy to get to the point where the bomb is exploding and say, 15 years ago you had to build ferrovia in the opposite direction. The government is doing well and all its data is reduced. It's hard to do that. Is it going to counter the nature of the Lula doing something like that? It had to do it. The first time, in many years of the government, in this Lula 3, we saw it reducing some of the tariffing tasks on the oil soldering and it will have to do the scudisio. It will have to do the gas. In Brazil, and to make the government do the same. That one, the relationship that was not very good to the governor, now, my friend, depends on you. You will have to pass the phone, call one by one, talk to the governor, need help, don't import the election, if you want to do the business here, but reduce it because it is because of the population. Is it possible to do that? Maybe because now the population is interested. So, it is valid with the interests of the electoral elite. The state government is a lower price, in the trade trade line, and then a lower gas in the government. So, when you are interested in it and your political and electoral intensions, who knows how to do it, and I already walked to your last question, Paul. Yes, Lula is in the political elite. It's just what they know how to do. To tell you the truth, Brazil is in the same way as the government. Why, of course, when you think of 4 years of four countries, which allow a relationship, which allows a president to come back for the third time, because if we were in the United States, Lula could not have come back. It would have been there, both of them were sent. But it's still a surprise. So, Brazil has a series of problems. Flavio Bolsonaro has already protocoled a peck that increases the president's mandate for 5 years and ends with the relationship. Maybe it is a solution, but still, believe it or not, that the Brazilian still thinks a lot about the short term. And then it's a culture issue, a question of education, of being invested much more in this education, thinking about a country project. For example, what China does not have this problem, and it is very well resolved, in the way of infrastructure, of ferrovia, the transport, the energy issue, because, obviously, they think of millennia. They don't think of 4 and 4 years of their thinking. In millennia, and obviously, that you have a communist government in power, then they can think of a certain fear now, that you are a liar. Look at the court, the law of China is dangerous. It has the culture, and has the political reality, the communist party, the Chinese community, that keeps being able to have a lot of time. So they want more, that the countries, especially the United States, explode in this war, because they are very well there, thank you for your market capitalism, your community, so it's like Brazil needs to mature, and work every time better. Let's think about the project of Brazil. Let's start making ferrovia now, for the next president, not the next one, the other one, and deliver this from there. Is it possible? I'm going to show you a little more, because you mentioned the governors of this balance, this difficult dialogue, that the law is going to be in front of them, with the governors. I want to know, how do you think the government is going to help us to open up the arms, to help us, not just help the federal government, but if this happened, it would be a war, or if the government was going to help Brazil. For example, in Paraná, I think the Rating Union would be willing to do this sacrifice, which is a political sacrifice. Let me go inside. I'll just leave it in the air, just to bring a date that he will be willing to do to this government. I'm going to show you a protest there, saying that you're threatening to ask for it to go up the impact of crisis in 2018. There was just a reclamation in relation to this war of the governors that was the lack of fraud. It was a big thing. You're saying, you're saying it. You're saying it. Now you have to wait for the troops to come. Just to say I'm going to need a giriate fraud because I'm not going to end up like this. I'm not going to end up like this. I'll give you an interesting example. 80-90% of the government's record is from ICMS. 20-30% of the government's record is from ICMS. That is, between 15-25% of the government's record is from ICMS. I just wanted to add that and play to the U.S. to develop the GDRM-KILTR, bringing a concrete data that illuminates the discussion about the capacity of the state of the government and renunciates it. Remembering that the past generated billionaires, this great reclamation of the States? There's another one. The political issue is still economic. Because during this whole week of the government and this third government of the government, he didn't treat many good governors. I remember the Peck of the public, in which Lula made a meeting with governors, he didn't have a thesis to present very less or less heard or addressed the suggestions of governors. On the other hand, we have now more organized governors, politically, as Tarsis, Ratinho, Zema, Caillado, the governor of the Consul who practically organized the report to the UN, the federal government, not going to help us, we have to follow our life and they organized it. A great problem is the competitive package that has to be reviewed. All governors send much more money here in the South and in the South-S, in a different reality, in the North-S, in this region, he sends much more money than he receives. That is, even this recommendation that he already has in large part, is to be in Brazil, not to come back to here. Even if they beat this imposter, it will still be a very bad situation for them. So, it's a series of questions that must be taken into account. The first thing that Lula has to solve is that the governors are a little bit important now in the final challenge in the electoral law. A great part of them will share the cargo already in the next month. Visiting the election in this year in an electoral law, and also interested in that Lula is not re-elected. Maybe that makes the party a lot of money. That's what happens in the Constitution. It's going to take a lot of new governors. If this happens a lot of time, and these vices, what they will want to do with all this, is the thing that is more open than we imagine. So, right now, I want to know from the other side, in your first comment you said about the explanation, a explanation about this minimum value of the Fret, which was established by Michel Temer at the time. I just think that you have to explain if you are favor of the minimum value of the Fret or you are not favor of this measure that was taken and lost until today. Another thing I want to know from you, is the more ethical question, and part of the truckers. Do you believe that the truckers, these entities that are organizing, organizing this parallelization with the potential of chaos? They have the notion of this power that this category has today, as I compared, in the 1990s, you are from that time, right? You remember the oil oil, do you know that the truckers have the notion of chaos that they can provoke? Do you have any ethical question involved in this parallelization? I will start with your first question, I remember that Temer recently declared that he is a very loved president because he was the president of the world of Hava, but he ran all over the world, to bring him and say, look, when he ran the reform, he worked, he implemented gas oil, and this is exactly the problem that you were discussing, that you brought, you talked about the fact that we end up in the refurbishment of the electoral agenda of a populism. Well, when we look at the question of the regulation of the market and at the beginning, we have the regulation of the market that is the same as the state where necessary. The state should only enter when the market itself cannot be able to regulate. In the reason of the problems that happened in 2018, in the capacity of the market of the regulatory market, the solution created at the time was a huge difference, a minimum of value. I don't have the knowledge of this market to be or not necessary. But I think there are other solutions to avoid this problem that is happening now. And then I come back to your second question that is the question. The exercise said very well about the infrastructure of a transportation system and the objective of decreasing the vulnerability of the Brazilian is this specific model of transport. The GIF said about the articulation of the states, which can be done in a articulation of the states, so that the states also open their hands, and then we would depend on the articulation of the federal government, including the compensation of the federal government in the benefit of the states because of the pre-Jewish of the definition of the recommendation that the states had, as I mentioned before, mentioning the data that would be something very significant. Let's remember. And all the sanctions that the federal government does present this exemption with the hand, decreasing the attribute of the cost of the diesel with the hand, but it will take away the way with the other. The government does not make money. The government will take this money that he is using to take the exemption of fiscal, with the Steve's, especially diesel, it will take away the way of the taxes. Let's remember that the event is very good and the government had created an increase in taxes 27 times, once in every 37 days in the media. Now there are other two solutions that would be for this problem. The third solution, the infrastructure, the articulation of the states, the third solution would be creating mechanisms of the death of the repassion of the oil oil, the oil oil, and the oil oil, the fuel of the diesel, was dilatated at the time. At the end of the time, the truck drivers who make free of charge are reorganized, reorganize their contracts, according to this increase that is happening. So, the third mechanism would be the death of the increase of the prices, the preventive oil oil, and finally, in the fourth place, it would be possible to fiscalize the price of the front, establishes more and more transparent contractions, as the goal of the guarantee is to ensure that the solution was established in 2008, it would be effective. You asked if this is the best solution, I did not say that there is a deep knowledge of this market and of trucks to say it is the best solution. The synonym has the races and the race and the other thing is to discuss it is better, there are alternative solutions that are in the discussion that we can do. And it is asked, is ethics, for the part of the truck drivers they make a parallelization and more, they have knowledge of the power of the power of the damage they have. I think they do not have knowledge, they do not have knowledge of the power of the articulation, because it is a highly informal and disorganized category. In Borussia, there are some associations with which they are meeting today. In great measure, the market of the front, and it is given by autonomous people who are not so organized among large associations, among syndicators. So it is a category in great measure informal. But I think they do not have dimension, they can move the category with some regularity for a great parallelization, as those who made it in 2018. It was very exceptional, very good to have other minor parallelizations in 2021-2022. They will be able to anything similar to what happened in 2018. Now, what we need is think about ethics. It is in the same way as the public service for society to continue running and working. These categories must be for an ethical imperative, in the same way, be careful for the minimum essential to continue working. Everything is good to do a parallelization to seek solutions for the market in which there is a very large degradation to the point of pressing those people, they do not have to be able to work in the minimum essential to be able to run medical service, service of essential services food, so we can realize the transplant of organs. Today, in great measure, it was an area, but nothing worse, something has been done also, to come to the rest, the ambulances that transports the before, these essential services need to continue to exist, to prevent the category of the human rights of the people in society. I just want to make a quick round of questions, I still have the topic that happened now. Chico, do you think the population we talked about the effects of the electoral effects, only the effects of our government in Lula? Do you think the population or the population of the population is willing to make a sacrifice at this time? Yes, of course, to make a sacrifice for everyone. And the price is high? The price is high? No, is the population willing to pay the price for a paralyzing theoretically, is the benefit for the right? Well, it can be. And maybe it's a good occasion if it happens to each one do a kind of diagnosis in the human itself. To know how much the population is willing to do. If you're just to help people only because it's your opponent, it's going to be wrong with this. Maybe we should make a conscious review, maybe you're not worried about the common of the convictions that our people are in the right because the common of society is what we have to look for all the time. I think the majority of the population don't think so. And I think I'm going to my first comment, which is the population. She's already made sacrifice for so many times, with so many things that I think the margin is more and more for this. And that's why we also have to take a little care of the political manipulation of this, because in the first moment it may even be that the socialization is not a very simple situation. And if you lose sight of the best way to be very common, who is thinking very wide, you think you're going to move on? filter. I think the question, maybe it's not already this, because the population itself, she's not only in these rational decisions thinking in the election or in this sense. And so, it's not the right way to go against the government, because they are already wanting to repass the frustration for everyone. Maybe it was going to take a little more to solve the problem. And she's already feeling it. In large masses, the people who try to show this are still going to support this. And now, the point of the abolition comes. When you are in the same balance, it weighs a lot against the government. And in the end, this is the great objective of a group of the truck drivers. Difficultly, they put this in Paltor or Realiza or Modes. But when Realiza is to cause the turbulence in Brazil so that they change the route. Because even now, everything is happening. The government does not show the way to the decision of the post, the task, the task of Tarifa. But the most censored, the law is now there, too, that is generating great critics. Everything generates great problems, great critics, for the population. And now the truck is just demonstrating this in a way even more incisive to show. There is no satisfied person who is going to get the prices back and in the end, the one who is going to benefit is the population. Because when the politicians are begging for interest, to see what will happen in the election, someone needs to take a drastic measure to see the oil coming back to the population. Well, Dota, you see that the filter is impugned, right? I want to know you, do you think the population is willing to do this sacrifice? I don't think this paramilization, the political objective. No. I think this paramilization of the truckers has economic objective. The most popular when it comes to the truckers' lives. It's just families, their conditions and work. And it's a important and essential category. People who agree that they have to get the truck to work tomorrow, at night, in the afternoon, and at night, they have to pay the money to use the arms and the equipment and the equipment they have to look for the re-ventures of what they have to do. And then, if the public needs to be able to make a deal with the government with society. Because, for the time being, the fact that in a serious state, the government is only a very big proposal. But they have the right to make their own pressure, make their own articulation, and to open this negotiation with the government with society. When the rest of society is the right to do this, I don't think people will want to choose to do this, not to expose the excuses. These people can do this. To avoid the unnecessary negotiations, it will be a very big dissatisfaction of the society that will have a dimension and a factor in the electoral. Now, it's very difficult to do a question like this. Will the population know about the costs that will have to be for the economy and the electoral benefits would be to agree with this. And then you will have 50% of society that will be able to make this cost-benefit. And even if this 50% has not had a dimension of the economic prejuice economy. But we now have studying, analyzing, analyzing, the most popular way of the general form will have a dimension that is concrete to make this analysis. It is very difficult to speculate about the population. Now, let's make a pause here in the discussion to ask you to sign the poverty center. The province is our promotion of the consumer week and the HZS of the people. The poverty center is now signed by the links you find in the description or in the chat of this video. Then, where you are making this video, you can increase by 6 months you can use the QR code on the screen or access the site to get the site www.gazeta.gov.com.br and it is already signed? But do you like our work? Well, how help us to keep our channel here on YouTube? Yes, that's right. We are going to try to get our club members here on the channel and believe people. Do a lot of difference for us. Now, let's go back to our discussion here. Saying that the senator Flávio Bolsonaro joined this week with the Minister of Alexandre de Morais to ask that the minister is welcomed by the domiciliar prison but is a person in the condition of health. This conversation in the presence of the Bolsonaro's lawyer Paulo Cunha, the second test. The minister of Alexandre de Morais would have said that he understands the relationship with the domiciliar prison for Bolsonaro and what do you think of this initiative of the senator and the candidate Flávio Bolsonaro to talk to the Alexandre de Morais? The reason for the Alexandre not to give the domiciliar is because he is a authoritarian subject, a very sensitive subject. A little bit. And also very sensitive. I will remember what he said that they ended up with my life. So he is also doing these people paying for what they did. And the problem is that the Alexandre de Morais already showed a configuration in which he did not care. And he managed to donate for decades of prison. But he did not convince the majority of the population of what happened. He said that it happened. He did not have the courage when the press was going to do everything he did. He did not have this majority saying that he agrees that he will not refuse. So when he sees something like this, he will not feel the fear of pushing. So it's better, I give a relief. On the contrary, he always accelerates more. He always punishes more. He always goes more. Let's remember what he did with Filipe Martins recently. Because he was transferred to the police. And he was very busy. And that's why we are in a situation without exit, limited with Alexandre de Morais. Because it seems that there is no other possibility of solution to this. It is not a retirat that the force, in the sense of law, with impeachment, this figure and maybe Alexandre de Morais, you came to talk to him too. To ask this intervention more humanitarian. And then I think it is in addition to being a relation of Filipe, that will ask for the same shot. We can not be that left behind. One of the biggest words of the Western European literature, which is the island of Amaro, after the Akili's killing the daughter of the king of Primo, so that she can be buried in the most correct way, in the second religion of the Trojan. So this movement of Michel Bolsonaro and now the Bolsonaro flag, is not just something that humanizes the Bolsonaro. It is not just a question that we understand perfectly, a daughter that will ask for the same shot. She will ask for the favor in the match with my father. Completely comprehensive. I think it will be the sense of the phrase of Alexandre de Morais. But there is also something that will work very much. In that it is put as a subject that does not go to the island of Alexandre de Morais. That is willing to to talk about those movements that the flag needs to do to appear more moderate than maybe the father achieved. This has a very big effect. With the majority that sees in the prison of the Bolsonaro a injustice. When you see a son asking for the favor of the minister, and even in the whole of Brazil, because the disc was completely a problem. The general group, which was a few days away from the Torres Strait, which has never been considered to be a mistake in the production of the process, as the stadium was sometimes talking about something. They are saying that it is the time of the Brazilian prison. So this movement of the flag, it is not just human, it is not just a child, but it is also very electoral. It is put a subject that has a kind of moderation, and that knows to talk about it, you don't want to interrupt the minister, but ask the minister to buy it, because we are not talking about it anymore. The Torres Strait is at home for a long time. So I think it was a attitude not only to work, not only to tell a child but also to literally certain. What is it? It's a big class, now it's good to be with you. Well, everything is said to follow the program, but in fact we have a very lucid senator Flávio Bolsonaro and talk to the manager and ask him to give a name to Silé. Now, of course, he, as also involved in the case of Bolsonaro, has this right, the broadest of visiting Bolsonaro, of doing these interventions with the ministers, and what we hear from the citizens, at least what the report is that the idea of sending Bolsonaro to domicilear is to gain strength even inside the STF. According to the government, the ex-fux, Nunes Marx and André Mendon were already favourable, that Bolsonaro was to domicilear, even the government is favourable, because it is also very expensive. As for this, in the second, these few minutes, the minister, Flávio Dino, Carmen Lucia and Alexandre Morais would still be resistant to sending Bolsonaro to the house, and one of the main reasons of the Alexandre Morais is that the president of the House of Bolsonaro, the Electoral Leader, but it is worth remembering that Alexandre Morais sent the president of the House to the House, for much less and even with his authoritarian leader, he is still keeping it there. So, it seems that it is a double-padrão moral, for one value, for another one. Maybe because, as Chico very well put here, Alexandre Morais does not think like a juiz wants to come from Bolsonaro. That's why he does not have more following the law, following what is constitutional, what is the fact that he should follow his own instincts and then we know that his instincts are to show the right to all the roots, for example, after losing his credit card. So, we can not trust the instincts of the minister of Chico Morais, that is why he has to go but he insists to ignore it. So, the state is willing to start with him, how many times they were necessary to see his father in the house, and recovering himself. Now, to know if he still has a little humanity or if he wants impartiality in the minister of Chico Morais. I think he has finished. Do you think he does not have a change? No, even with the step of the minister, he can happen to a morais for some reason. But if he continues to go rational, everything that Chico Morais has decided and even defended here, it is difficult to believe that he would change this opinion in a way as easy as it is. Because the last the latest doctors in Bolsonaro are relating to a better life. And then Chico Morais will use this to say, he is improving. And also, if this situation is completely... If the situation in Bolsonaro had not improved, maybe the press was increasing, the minister was talking and he said, no, he did not have a way to leave the guy here, he will die and the blame will be mine. So, let him go to the house, released by the messelians to take my account. But, as Bolsonaro is getting better, I imagineinen in the situation we are in, even though Bolsonaro had a better one, but his situation is still quite serious and there is always this risk, every time he is taken to the hospital, we think that if Bolsonaro died, if Bolsonaro died, it is about the custody of the STF right now. What do you think could happen? Karls Katastrof. Now, see how our discussion shows the scenario of the STF today. But we are not discussing the law, we are not discussing the reality, the sensitivity of Bolsonaro's situation, but we are discussing the political factors that he knows, that the liberal left will take into account his decision. What shows how the literature is peaceful? Nobody said that the law of the federal police in the Natal page, the prison, there is or there is no possibility of him being in prison, this is treated in a proper way, today he is only doing political literature because he knows that unfortunately, by eliminating him, he leaves the law of the law and he will decide according to the political, according to the interests. Let's remember that the law of the Bolsonaro's relationship, he said that he could be treated in prison, but the reality of the Smentilaldo was there. He went to the TI, he had the reflux with the gas and intestinitis materials, that was due to the respiratory risks, that was due to the human being, he had a pneumonia, two sides in the reason of the material aspiration, and came from the digestive system, he had a respiratory insufficiency, he had seven scots surgery, the reality of the Smentilaldo that was in the decision of the beginning of the month of March 4th, the reality now is the other, and the reality is the decision of the prison, the prison is no longer in the way, but now it is even more, and let's remember that in the case of the Collar, there was a system of the prison system, the prison system, that said that the Collar could be treated in the prison system, but due to the humanitarian reasons, the animalists considered the prison and sent it to the house, in the case of a number of nine million reais, the real sea, he sent the Collar to the Conventional Convention, then Bolsonaro did not, in the case of Bolsonaro, even the reality on the other hand, he kept the prison, now the equation, as you are also analyzing, is a political equation, and you see, you brought your other elements, this equation is getting more complex, when the eye is over, the exercise and the result, well, it was calculated that the negative of the prison of the Miserie, derived from a desire of revenge, from a negative profile of the minister, that lost his private life in the reason, in this case, in the reason, let's say, the diversity that emerged between Bolsonaro and the animalist. But then, it was also placed in the equation, a present moment, I think this made a very good reading, the very good reading that I do, the Flávio, when he goes there, and puts himself as a lawyer, in a respectful way, more compulsory, right to ask him, and the father, he is showing a degree of maturity, of emotional intelligence, and that is what we hope to see in the presence of the Republic, that he is behaving in the most adequate way possible, within the electoral context. It is not that he does that, but it is a more adequate way that he shows maturity. Now, in addition, we have to look at the future, in relation to the future, Morais is impeding Bolsonaro and going back home, to difficultly impede political articulations, because, in the present, there is a limited visit, in the home you do not have a reason for your visit, there are not all the questions of administration, that are impede, are obstacles for frequent visits. So, in the home, he could make a political articulation with a very strong reading, and we know that the Supreme dies of fear of being taken by the right. In addition, there is something you mentioned to the passage of the questions, which is the impending that the State of Morais is suffering with a stiff day. Is this change in the Equation? No, change to that side. And there is still another aspect that no one mentioned here that is the following. Is it Bolsonaro's fault? Is it rivaling with Lula there, even winning some electoral scenarios for the second turn in the projections and vote? Is it the fact that Bolsonaro's fault is not only present, but a potential future, the president of the Republic, that is not change in the Equation? Is it that now Morais will say, is it better? I will do some points with him, I can make a point, because at some point I will press him, maybe it's the moment I make a credit in this relational current account, because I'm having a hard time, I'm having a hard time, in case I'm in the Assyrian case, I can press him at some point. And then you bring the risk of a failure, no one wants it to happen, but it's the risk, while he is lying in a carciner even having the risk of a broken aspiration, he will aspire to the intestinal gas material, it's a risk that has, and the episode of the day, shows that clearly. And if this happens, people, it's the worst scenario possible for Morais, because there will be such a big indignation, and I think that will influence the elections now on the October. So the Equation is increasingly complex, and the scenario is starting to be more and more popular, by deciding a miscellaneous Peasant. Now, if the Morais will not do it, I've already tried to try to understand the Morais. The Morais is someone who leaves my understanding, I think in a part of the same budget, the same views in the world that he can't understand his man, because at times he just acts in a way even counterintuitive or not rational. Chirro will think that after giving a tip to the devil trying to understand Morais' way of thinking, I'm thinking, I'm thinking. And the minister, Gilmarmend, continues to humorize, Gilmarmend, if you don't remember, who doesn't remember? That recently announced the arrival of the company of the Minister of Gestopholi declared by the organized crime crime, among other striped. Or, who was with Marara, with Gilmarmend, was the president of the CPMI and NSS, the director Carlos Viana. He had to cancel the exception of the CPMI, which would happen today, because Gilmarmend forced a very low-key test to compare. The members of the CPMI and a depot of the president of the Bank of Crefiza, Leila Pereira, who would have to explain the suspects of the infirmities of the alleged victims, being considered impensionists. Well, I'm a conservative, I was following a road here, but now I'm going to change, because we're going to talk about Gilmarmend. And I'm sure that the devil is crazy to talk about Gilmarmend. Tell me, Gilmarmend, Gilmarmend. Always, always, to talk about Gilmarmend, we're always ready to give up. Well, the minister of Gilmarmend asked what is going to happen to the CPMI and NSS, if a person is now at this moment. Now this decision, the incredible thing that appears, the presidency, the incredible thing that appears, rarely I'll talk about Gilmarmend, she's linked to the own decisions, the minister of André Mendoza, who follows the technique and the jurisprudence of the tribunal. But it does not mean that Gilmarmend is not Gilmarmizing, not being barricading, using this word, or its neologism, this invention that is very well applied to Gilmarmend, you did it, Gilmarmend. Look, the second term of the STF, even having a major form, to maintain the presence of Daniel Vorkaro, with Mendoza, with Fuchs, with Nunes, Marx, and remember that the offer was declared, suspecting himself, if he did all the work, he only missing Gilmarmend from the vote, and he did not give up, he even had this party to deposit his vote. But, he's already speculating that Gilmarm will be Gilmarmizing his vote. According to the STF, Gilmarmend is preparing what is called the vote of Gilmarmend, a vote of all the tribunal, all the technical, but the Gilmarm technique traditionally is for Englishmen. Gilmarmend's vote is in addition to the concrete case and fixed some thesis, and three points must appear. First, Gilmarmend has to defend that he intercepts phone calls, that announce the content of phone calls, that have been sent, must be escorted, must destroy photos and photos that do not have a relationship with the investigation. This would be a direct reaction to the statements of intimate messages from Vorkaro. According to the point, Gilmarmend can question the contemporary of the facts that are based on prison. This would be an argument that the defense of Vorkaro has beaten enough. Or, Gilmarmend, could raise the possibility of other court-faceted and sufficient media. But look, this would all be so absurd, so absurd, this second point here, about the contemporary of the facts, this prison is more than demonstrated. So, although the press has been speculated in relation to this, I do not think he will do it. Gilmarmend is highly strategic, he does not give a point to the new one. In relation to the question of destruction of materials, who do not say the investigations, then I believe he can without advancing this direction. But if the third point is still raised for the press. There is a expectation that Gilmarmend mentions even that in a way, in a way, forced, death of the cigarette, in the deputies of the federal police, in the same day he was arrested. He can want to build a conspiracy theory against the federal police, because he is one of the ministers who is dead of the federal police, who has advanced the investigations that the Supreme Minister has. And they know if they feel untouched. So, he can come to a conspiracy theory without a foundation against the federal police, in the same way as he did the conspiracy theories, against the law, and so on. Now, let me bring something for my account, okay? I do not want to impress you. I do not doubt that Gilmarm begins to plant a cement of a future nullity. I do not doubt that he begins to say about the impossibility of the federal police, to investigate the ministers, the Supreme, to express their authority, and that anything that has been wrong can impact the minister of the future is null because he has never considered it. That is, Gilmarm is to exclude the impossibility of what the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court is against the law, against the ministers. Let's assume that you will investigate a person by a crime, and you will get there and you will discover the evidence of other crimes that say, and respect other people. Today, you have already found the explanation that you can do this. But I do not doubt that Gilmarm sees that some theory is a lie, to blend your colleagues, because they do this, and they play this sadreys, of the politicians, of the Supreme Supreme, very well. And let's remember what Gilmarm did recently. In March of 2016, he asked a highlight, and he stopped the judgment, which analyzed the decision of the Flavio Dino that kept the suspension of the decision approved by the CPMI and the S.S. that decision that included the Lulinha, the Lusíngara government, that Lulinha's own. And then Gilmarm asked the suspension of the judgment, and he asked that he was on the amplitude of the CPMI investigations. By protecting the Lulinha, possibly in our analysis, a favor for Lula Pai, which can be covered at any time. In addition, let's remember that Gilmarm made a decision this absurd procedure, that of the S.S.S. suspending the decision of the CPMI, organized by the Cigillo's headquarters, the company of Toffle, the Maridit, and he determined that he was still in the use of the Upti. He argued that the CPMI was being pulled out of the investigation, but it was a legitimate measure, worse than a Mar-Face, which was illegitimate. He took the Gaveta, a three-month-old guy, and he was stopped, and everything stopped, the Annulation of the Cigillo's Cigillo, that is, even though in this specific case, the testimony against which the president of the CPMI was still in the use of the CPMI, the senator, reacclamating, even though in this case, Gilmarm can be following the previous steps. We see Gilmarm, Gilmarm, Gilmarm, Gilmarm, in the case of the prison of Daniel Vurcaro, which I have not heard, wrote to plant some news, outside the events of the press, Gilmarm is Gilmarm, in the decision of Flavio Dino, who suspended the CPMI's Cigillo, and he asked the Vista to enroll, promised to pass the time, and the CPMI ended up without the CPMI being able to have access to the Lulinha materials, and he also joined this CPMI, that organized when he was able to access the Maridit material. Gilmarm is being Gilmarm, and putting a series of decisions that in practice guarantee the impunity of great corrupts and of his colleagues as staff. Obviously, the protection of intimacy is a fundamental right, but it can not be used with a shield to prevent the congress from using its constitutional function and physicalization, so there is access to relevant information about the scandal that involved billions of years ago, and can not be used as shield for the ECF ministries, becoming an intolerable house. Well, let's see, right? We can convince people of the Brazilian Academy of Elections to record this word, this neologism, this verb, to humorize. Well, and it's worth remembering, as the Deltar mentioned, that Gilmarm, it was the only minister there, of the Turba, not to vote, still in the play of the Manutenção or not of the prison, of the Banqueiro Daniel Vorkaro. He has even this sixth party of the 20th, to offer, to publish, his vote, even if the record is decided by 3-1 by the manutenção, of the prison. And while Gilmarm decides, then his vote says, he says, that the new lawyer, of the Vorkaro, has already killed the port, of the federal police, to make a pre-meditated of his client. And then, Gilmarm, do you know what it is? It's going to be a good, good, good, good, good, good, good, more or less, it's going to be just a little jump, and not even a tubarão, and I want to also say what you expect from this vote, I want you to say what you expect from this vote of Gilmarm, do you expect from this vote? No, it's going to be a pass from the point of view of the situation, it's going to be a good deal, that has no more fatness. I hope, in fact, a supposed construction, dogmatic, theoretical, of the right, that does not absolutely mean anything. It's a very good, well-known soap of Gilmarm, it must be building, for a juridical reality in the country that does not matter absolutely nothing more than the law, the doctrine, jurisprudence. They create a rebuild and conform the soap of the winds. The own, the own question of the CPI, for example, of opening, right? In Bolsonaro, you, the Ministry of Minority, the President could not prevent it. Now they have changed. The own, the own, the own way the CPI works, it's already in the air, from Congress, to review the laws, or to make a new law about the CPI, to allow them to have a CPI, because, in the way, that the thing is not only the Minister of the Marble, but also the other other of these two similar, even the Minister of the Ministry of Minority, in which, in the background, the FF does not allow the Congress to do a CPI, to not know what interests it. Then, the Obriga, the Obriga, the Obriga, the investigations happen, that people compare. In the past, there, back then, before the Lavajá, which was the Lavajá, which began to put both the impecilius in the air, the CPI has a much more freedom of the Vorkáro, even during the day, the Jumarmenes will want to put something as a reference, if they want the 10 mandates of Moisés Descendant of the Montanha to say how the FF, the FF could help the Ciaro, should work. What I doubt, which will have many pages, is analysis of the facts, analysis of the proletes. It will have a lot of language input, a lot of theoretical reference, many principles, the Aesmarqueism played, but no depth with relation to the facts, that if you read the vote of the Ministry of Independence, and the ones who follow it, they all are talking about the situation, of the FF. What made the Vorkáro, and what made the Vorkáro, does not enter a juridical debate about that, because there is a lot of commitment. And about the relation, if it will be good, if it will be my good, if it will not be, I think it is a coincidence, because, although, I think the Ministry of Independence should be walking in obvious, because it can't give a risk, a doubtful fiat, for some eventual reality of its pairs, compared to this situation. It also depends on the PGR, which should also be being even more investigated, exactly in the PGR function. So, the FF, the Ministry of Independence, will have to do that very well, because everything that the Vorkáro says, he will need to point some minimum proof to sustain his relation. It will not be the relation of the CID. The CID relation is valid, independent of what the CID has to present. The Vorkáro, no. The Vorkáro presents the proofs, a little more robust, or it will be difficult to be accepted, and then the relation will be kept inside that, which is possible to be proven. And then, they are, right? What will be the Vorkáro having, in fact, saved to be able to deliver? I will not speculate, I hope that everything will be there, because there is a super relation, relation, but it would not be a very focused, determinative, political, and, many people, especially from the FF. Well, Kultra, I want to know about you, what you expect from the Vorkáro of the Jumar Mendes and the Vorkáro's relation, which will be possible. Well, the Vorkáro of the Jumar Mendes seems to be the goal of the CID, right? We will not see it, but we will have a position there, in this road that is being the case of the Banco Master to STF. It is our expectation, right? Sometimes they surprise, they say, well, we have already finished here, we have to go with them, for me, more or less, but I think the Jumar Mendes has already reached a point, not even there to help him, he is there to pay attention to the influence of his public in STF, among the powers. He does not matter anymore with his public image until the communist of STF, almost have been excused today in Brazil with the Senate that we have. We have already had a Senate, usually before, with the president, who did not have the job with STF, and both processes of investment for corruption would be a little different, but this is the reality of the country. So, it is blind, do not imagine anything different. Now, about the delay, today's news makes me a little more optimistic, because, because, we know that the lawyer of the lawyer was to speak directly with Dremendonça about this delay, what could come in, what could not come in, even had a question Dremendonça if he would stop here to involve a minister in the past, and it seems that, as a Dremendon, the Pope in the language said that he will not roll with me, the game is not like this, or it is everything is nothing, or it is black in white, I do not have space for negotiation. And that's how it has to be. A case of this size, or any case, in fact, in the real of the minister's hand, should be treated with partiality, and with the seriousness that the law exists. But we are not used to see this from STF. So, for us, it is all a novelty, very good. But he has worked very seriously, imagine that this delay of the lawyer will deliver great people, will deliver the ministers, because, in the end of the day, now he is worried only with himself. He has already realized that he did not add anything, put in a contract 129 million in his hand, after the legal office, put in 60 million in the resort of the Tayaayá, the top of his kitchen, so he is realizing that the thing is different. He did not add the contract to Levant Doves, as a constructor, Michel Timer, spent millions and millions, he helped him, so, I will tell you that it is there, at least it must have been this time that he passed when he left the wall in prison, greeting names, there, of politicians, who should help him, by the way, he felt that he did not help, and it was to stop the medical of the prison. Now, yes, it seems to me, that, given Levant the prisoner, that he is involved in, so many other people, arrested, being able to pay, he will deliver everything, and promise to go out and the public, and will accelerate many of the federal police work. I remember here, that the Brazilian police had to send many to their lawyers, to the board, to the federal police because they were not able to make a lot of money. It is very difficult, just to be asked to be released from the Giga's 300 of the documents and documents of the board. So, it is, it is very difficult, you analyze, this amount of all of the file, a very short and very short and give a initial point very good to you advance these investigations with speed and put some important in the mirror, from great leaders and Cacix to the Ministry of Staff. I think something will be good. Ok, well, now, the Deltan has already been released, he said, what he expects, he doesn't expect from the vote, from the Giamar Mendes, but I want to know, I think Deltan has a little bit of this kind of delay. So, we are curious to know what you think that will, if there will be any coerio of this delay, then, Daniel Volcar, you know, that will happen, in fact. Look, Paulo, I'll go out with a certain one, but what coerio will go out? And today, there are not many news about the press, giving the account that the lawyer of Volcar said that will deliver everything, which will not happen. But, let me put a little bit of water in the soup, in my case, or in your case, in the water, in your soup. Ok? Let me ask you, you, as a judge, a lawyer of success and earn millions that have prestige, that has tofu and opening doors for you in the Supreme Court of Federal Government, has a good relationship with the ministers, built along with decades, and that depends on all your professional situation. If the access is a determinant of the honoraries that you have. You will put tofu and moral in this deal, no? You will work, to cooperate for this to happen, or you will turn to your crepe, and you will say, look, there is a very big risk, if you put and these people will fall, you will be wrong. And the nose of this risk and the incentive to create is not to do. So, what are the incentives that exist and not only to provoke? Are the incentives that exist and can be avoided? I always talked to my courses in which I signed about the pre-media for prosecutors, for the Jewish promoters, I said that you have to understand that there is no negotiation between two parties. There is a negotiation in three parties. And the lawyers have their interests in the delacent. There is an interest financial of receiving for them, it is good to do a delacent when the guy is defending a guy for years and process that he will receive his course there soon following. And the interest that the lawyer will take into account to conduct or not a pre-media delacent. Now, there are several other interests like these relationships and as someone who worked there for six years, and made more 150 courses and delacent pre-media, I can say, with all the security, or the lawyers do not like or deliver anyone from the judiciary. They do not like and their clients, their collaborators mention people in the judiciary. Because they are afraid of retaliation not only about the collaborator, but about their writers, about their lawyer, about their ability of resolution, of conflicts along with the next decades. So, the judge, he is saying, why is he not the judge saying that he will deliver everyone who had to deliver? My opinion, this can be a story that he is creating. To say, we deliver everyone who has to deliver, but the ministries, well, the ministries do not have to deliver. But I think that this attempt to confront the obstacle, which will be the tests. There are tests that were going to be done. And the federal police, according to the press, reported that there are many more tests in relation to the special offer. And I do not doubt that they are more tests in relation to the moral issue. Because those views and views are unique that were done. And that the federal police will recover the images sent and recovered in the WhatsApp itself, not by the block of notes, but by the WhatsApp itself, recover in relation to the lawyer. But why not recover the moral issue? Will anyone not go to the office to the moral issue? If the system, which is used, is the period system, of data extraction, the system of the rallying system, it allows to recover even the messages paid. I do not doubt that it comes, and I do not doubt that it comes to the future of the lawyer's relation. And I do not doubt that it comes to the interest of his clients, the circumstances that are current, he is all over the world, he negotiates with the P.F. and the federal government and directly with Dremendos a homologation that guarantees a drastic reduction of the country. If he delivers great stupidity, he will have a right to this. And he can have, his expectations legitimate, even a immense reduction of the country. But my greatest receive at this moment is the conflict of interest, Daniel Rorcaro and his own lawyer. Right. Thank you. Did you see? It was a misunderstanding that the issue of the lawyer is going to be understood if he left the lawyer to live, not only for you, but also for the spectator of the lawyer. If I left a thought or a problem with all this, because I was thinking about literature. And in the Brazilian interpreter and everything else was important. This time, but the lawyer is more a personal villain of novela, because he really really so much in a sense of the show. Imagine any of these big villains of novela that we have. You can visualize a little of Alexandre Morais. But to keep the literature talking about it, I think the third record of Shakespeare, for those who want to read, will find I think no. I went to Lex Luthor, you went to Shakespeare. But it was very, very difficult. It was very difficult. It was very difficult. I went to the novel to learn. It was very difficult. But if you want a very, very well-dressed character, to understand Lex Luthor, you have to also understand. Lex Luthor, let's see the story. I don't know. I'm not sure. Well, and now, I would like to ask you to watch the Gazeta of the people. Please, watch the Gazeta of the people. Take advantage of our promotion of the consumer week. Now, watching the Gazeta of the people, now, through the links you found in the description or in the video chat. You pay only one real and 90 per month in the first six months. You can use what is the record that is on your screen. Or, then, you can directly access the website www. Gazeta of the people.com.br bar offer. And if you are already a servant, but like our work here on YouTube channel, which helps us to maintain our channel. That's right. You can do this, entering our club of members of the channel. And believe it, right? Do it a lot more, a lot of difference, even for us. Well, I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. My God. Thank you very much too. And the tomorrow will be here again. See you tomorrow, guys. Bye.