---
video_title: "🔴 \"Revoltante e desumano!\" Frota simula ligação e coloca prisão de Bolsonaro em risco | GAZETA AGORA"
video_id: iepJm7tz0O4
channel_name: "Gazeta do Povo"
channel_id: UCWdGgeyOnCOGnvhNdbVl1dQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iepJm7tz0O4
video_date: 2026-07-24T21:09:31+00:00
video_description: |
  PEGADINHA COVARDE: FROTA SIMULA LIGAÇÃO E AMEAÇA PRISÃO DE BOLSONARO: O Gazeta Agora destrincha a polêmica provocação do ex-deputado Alexandre Frota, que simulou ao vivo em um podcast ter ligado para Jair Bolsonaro em prisão domiciliar. A bancada analisa a indignação da família Bolsonaro e as declarações do senador Flávio Bolsonaro, que chamou o ato de "desumano e revoltante". O programa debate a nota oficial da defesa desmentindo o trote, a revista rigorosa na casa do ex-presidente e o desespero de figuras do entretenimento por cliques à custa da perseguição judicial da direita
  O Gazeta Agora é o jornal ao vivo da Gazeta do Povo no YouTube. De segunda a sexta, às 16h30, você acompanha as principais notícias do dia com análise, contexto e bastidores de Brasília.
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀ 
  ☑️ GAZETA TOTAL! ☑️ Garanta já o seu acesso ao melhor jornal independente do Brasil por apenas R$ 1,90/mês nos 6 primeiros meses. Acesse:  https://gazpovo.com/guMmN-2X 
  
  CURSO GRATUITO: O que realmente significa viver em uma sociedade livre? ⚖️ 
  Entenda a importância do Estado de Direito em um curso 100% GRATUITO guiado pelo professor e doutor Adriano Gianturco na Gazeta do Povo: https://gazpovo.com/SuG0shvf
  
  
  🔓 Quer conhecer a Gazeta e nossos planos de acesso? Vem no WhatsApp 👉 https://gazpovo.com/ETCRbF0m 
  
  
  🎙️ Apresentação: Carla Lima
  🧠 Comentários: Paulo Polzonoff Jr e Guido Orgis
  🏛️ Reportagem em Brasília: Aline Brito
  🎬 Produção: André Pugliesi
  
  Um jornal que vai além da manchete para ajudar você a entender o que realmente está acontecendo no Brasil e no mundo.
  
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  
  #Frota #Bolsonaro #FlávioBolsonaro
---
your Oh Good afternoon, welcome, it's starting the Gazeta now here on the YouTube channel of Gazeta of the people. The United States has put in new tariff and Brazilian products can pay even more. Michel has accepted the excuse to fly and ask for the right union for the 2016. The fleet simulates the connection with Bolsonaro and provokes the revolt between the allies. The Italian Justice is a follow-up but the day of decision about the Zambel, these and other news in Gazeta now. We arrived, thank you for the audience once again and let's start this six-day stop. Why of course we have a statement from Brazil but the news did not stop at any time. Bolsonaro is very good at it. Good afternoon, everyone, our audience, it was like you said, we have a statement there in Brazil but there are many things I'll talk about now and people. But also that we have a cold-blooded look to approach this path, we will talk about it throughout the program and at least give us the reason to comment here. He who passed a good part of his life, soon, we will talk about it today too. Let's talk with Aline Brito, the Brazilian Direct, in the end of the story. The politicians can be there between aspas, crazy, but Aline is working very much for Senal. Aline, very welcome, let's start our day today to talk about this issue. Of course, the United States have already announced a question of the two-point tariff, five more about the Brazilian products. I want you to explain how this contribution will work in the products directly, what are the effects? Hello, Carla, a great afternoon for you, for everyone who is with us. Well, since the beginning of the week, in fact, since the past week, we have come with the expectation of this new tariff of 12.5%. He comes to replace a tariff that was imposed in the past year of 10%, and that it also comes this week. So we can say that it takes the tax of 10%, which is increasing this liquefaction for 12.5%. This new tariff is the state's justification, which is about the forced labor. The United States opened up a relationship with this, and not only to Brazil, but to other countries, as they integrate to the European Union, which are also subject to this tax of 12.5%. The United States is lying here in Brazil, and these other countries have rigid politics against importation of products that are manufactured in countries that have this to practice in a forced, forced labor, forced labor, something like that, a analog work, to slavery. So the United States impose this tariff on the justification that this trade, this importation of Brazil, of the European countries, of these products that are manufactured with forced labor, they predict, so the beginning of the United States, the exportation of the United States, the American North countries, the United States, the Governor of Trump, has a policy against importation of products that come from these countries that, according to them, practice the labor labor, forced labor. They apply additional tax to the countries, but also to the products that, so, it is diminishing the importation of these products there by the United States. And what the country, what the Governor of Trump's Donald Trump wants is that Brazil and these other countries that now pass, are also tariffed with this 12.5% tariff, apply a same rigid political against countries like China. They even read there, the digital trade, directly bought by the Chinese website, which then would practice this labor labor. That's why this 12.5% tariff is forced, which affects our products that are listed there also in the 301. So, already adding tariff to 25%, which started the evaluation. This week, also in the fourth year, there is a total of 37.5%, which is a very heavy liqueur for our producers, for our, it starts the same Brazilian, this export flux to the United States. But, as I said, not only us, other countries also pass the suffering with this additional tariff of 12.5%. Well, these are more in practice, as I said at the beginning of my participation. There was already a 10% tariff, we say, so, imposed by the President of the American President, Donald Trump, which would be this week. So, despite these effective labor, this 12.5% tariff comes as a sub-stitutions to this one that was already worth more than a year. So, the Brazilian government does not expect that this affects significantly our commercial balance, this export flux to the United States, since in practice, in relation to the tariff that was in vigor to a half of two and a half. Already, they were 10% and now it passes to be 12.5%, the difference of 2.5% that passes to impact more, as I said. There is already a sum of tariff that also entered in vigor in the fourth year. Of course, there is a very strong government critic to these tariff, not only of 25%, but also this 12.5% tariff, but the government has minimized this impact, saying that the macroeconomic impact of this for Brazil will not be scared, it will not be very big, and also already with the line of credit that was launched this week, in the fourth year also, the government expects that the affected sectors do not feel a big impact negative, even by this possibility of running the line of credit, which is of 18 billion and a half reais, to the capital of cash flux, to buy the money, to buy new investments, to look for new markets. Even saw as a gesture that was created by the same professional measure that opened this line of credit, already worked as with this possibility, as certain, right? The government already expected this 12.5% tariff and this gesture already worked with this expectation that today they would enter in vigor this new tariff. So, already bringing a exit for the affected sectors now also with this tariff related to the forced work. Very good news for you. I wanted to thank you for explaining this difference, because I think this precision in information makes no one wanted to make a trick here, all the difference, because today the news is very fast, the people confuse the double, the tariff is here, tariff is there. I wanted to thank you first, and before I comment on it, I wanted to know if you are at the beach, that the car is here, I will tell you, this sun is dying from the sun, from the head that is cold, nothing is included today, right, Carla? The line of the sky, our maximum today, we will go into the frame. Our maximum today was of 14 degrees, 14 degrees maximum, we are hitting the box here. What is the temperature now? Please, send a little of this cold here, now the temperature here is 28 degrees, and a thermal sensation of 29 degrees, as you can see here behind me, is a sun, I, before the day, enter the air, even I was looking for an angle, because the sun is very strong, it is really a little complicated here, for the environment. Unfortunately, I am not in the beach, I am here in Brazil, even in a commercial center, here, since this summer, the congress closes the same, they are in a reform period, so in a commercial center, here, it seems a little bit like a beach, who knows, will go to the beaches, and a period of recess for us, also in the beach. I will not change here, there will be no way, I go to the winter, we go to the winter, right? I will not be, because I came to the beach, I do not want to, well, let's comment this there, and people, but a present, in fact, Trump, for Lula, who is a friend, who is Trump, Lula who was already doing a fight to be a star of the sun, with that first tariff, there, the PT that was creating until the trocade, tariff, to use the Lula, yesterday, until that time, we are showing this three, but there was a moment there, that he said that the sea that comes to the beach, he did not manage to tell the smile of the oil, the oil, talking about this tariff, look, the worst, that they say that comes more because there is still, I think it's pending, that history of the pixie, so, in the opinion, nothing more, Trump resolved to meet Brazil for the use of the pixie, because of the competition that the pixie can make the Americans companies. This championship's culture really, I have not heard of anything else, but Aline, I want to know about you, because the Lula government reacts to this new tariff causing the United States to be manipulating this theme, so expensive the left, the work is forced, I want you to explain this to us. Yes, Paulo, in fact, as you said, once again, the government also using this tariff history for political, electoral purposes, using the United States to manipulate, as you said, this theme, the Brazilian government rejects the criticism of the United States that Brazil, in a certain way, would be relevant to the forced work. It is also not only the government, but the whole, the government base, even using the end of the scale and the current of the party is in pro-developers, in pro-political, dignified, for the workers, and the government, in this moment, against this government's affirmation of the United States. Of course, the government already expected, as I said, this tariff, from the beginning, this is a very critical, even in the press collective that occurred this week, the ministers all said that it was a tariff in just, the force work but that, in fact, all this would be a form of the government of the United States again, that speech, that narrative of protection of the sovereignty, saying that the United States was trying to interfere in the national sovereignty and in internal matters of Brazil, but not only in the United States, but also in the way I clarified here in the beginning, this tariff is not only applied to Brazil, because sometimes we talk about the fact that the United States is applying the tariff against Brazil and it seems that there is a war between the United States and Brazil, not that we defend this, but just so that it is clear that this tariff at this moment is a justification that the United States uses to also sanction the average of this tariff or other countries to the European Union so, really there is not maybe something so personal of Donald Trump against Brazil as sometimes it is appearing, since this is also applied to other countries. The government obviously would not pass without doing some allegation, without reacting in some way and as I said, then it is rejected. And also the application of the tariff, classifying this percentage in the tariff of general mode as fair, that is that is already 25% being a very heavy liquid for our trade. And this is the pay, the pay, a sector that already suffers a lot in our country with a call of the Brazilian tributary of our tributary that is the sector of the calcated, manufactured, the sector really in our country, that already suffer with other tariff with the price also with the weight of the Brazilian cost, the contract of the workman's hand, the manufacture, all this cost that involves all the process of manufacturing of calcated, investment in our country. A strong presence here in Brazil, in the national congress to try to press our government parliamentary to see all this cost in Brazil, all these tariffes are imposed by Brazilians but that are difficult. The tax flow is really the production of this sector and that now with this 12.5 tariff, there is one more obstacle. This sector is also part of the 301 access to the lines of the crest that come as a respite at this time as a help, but it does not only solve all problems, this sector faces other difficulties that at this moment comes the tone of the discussion about the tax of the blues, the facilitation that Brazil does, removing the tax of imported products facilitating the entrance in this products, especially the area of the same area, which comes from countries with a China, which is the vision of the United States, a country that would practice this forced hand to be a disfalk for our Brazilian tax sector. It is a very delicate moment for this sector and that behind the tone is not only this 12.5 tariff but also other difficulties that the sector is facing not only today recent results of the KJDAPont then a decrease in the work in the trade sector mainly in the sector of the investment. So, also something related to the opportunities of unemployment, the emissions in this sector precisely because of this cost of Brazil which is mainly felt but not only for this sector. It is absurd that we are living for you to have an idea, if you notice here, but the Brazilian sector has migrated part of your operations where, for the Paraguay. For example, for example, from the loop, to the carsten, which is here in the south, are already very traditional markets, already are in the Paraguay and the chance to go indefinitely is gigantic. Why for you to be a notion? This movement is 50% of the costs of these companies. For you to have an idea the imposter in Paraguay is the only one percent of the export and the workers' encarbonation bureaucracy are infinitely smaller. So, we have a minister of the business of the Brazilian being the best economy minister in Paraguay. This never happens before in the history of this country. But now, with certain Paraguay they are vibrating with this minister. Well, Aline, now let's go to another very interesting subject. Where do we show here a video of Flavio talking about that internal crisis, family crisis, sorry, sorry, I'm going to miss any situation that he can have and he decided to answer if he manifested I think you talk a little bit about how he can talk about it. Yes, Carla, just before we really enter this subject, I would like to make another comment on this question of the sector, because a lot of people talk about this tax of the farmers and that has a large population, this broken tax of import of products that comes from China, even because this digital market started to grow a lot in our country. And we have a cost, Brazil, related to the industry, that affects the country's population. So, this product that comes from outside, is more cheap, in this relationship with the investment, is caused. So, it's a really delicate speech, not only our economy, but also the population. So, until this sector that is in Brazil with great frequency, I, even in the last weeks, the opportunity to talk with some representatives of the new tariff that would start in the afternoon, a Brazilian tariff, even that would start in the afternoon, they were mobilizing here to try to articulate with the industry's industry, and that they defend that the solution is not related to the tax of the farmers, but the tax that are imposed to the productive sector, all the production line, from there, the plantation of the first of the algodal, to the final product that comes there, the stores that come to our consumers. So, it's a debate really that goes far beyond that of the tax of the blue-nose flowers and this sector is a reason to try to escape, let's say, from Brazil, making this flower for the Paraguay. But, in fact, related to Michele Bolsonaro, really, Flávio, posted a video there, yesterday, calling Michele to dream, so that they come to dream, to make a retrospective to understand all this context. Michele, in that video, that she published about a month ago, she made a critical, directed, to Flávio, precisely about this. She said that it was very clear in the interactions of her relationship to the elections. And that's why she would have also said publicly that she didn't also insist on and that she would stay there. She provoked a domino effect of reactions even from the Michele's own Michele, leaving the president to announce that the campaign would be distanced from Flávio. And that, of course, was to re-exercise a lot. So, Flávio came with this video, publicly asking for Michele Bolsonaro and also asking for her, right? Som, which they are forced to conquer this elections. And Michele responded. She said that it is sorry to say that it is going to talk with Flávio and that it is going to defend a union, that it suits my youth, a union, and in an international country, a general mode. So, she comes with a union saying that it is going to talk with Flávio. Let's hear what she said. After leaving the girl I was able to make my art and political scenes. Flávio, I watched your video and received your words with a lot of peace. I want to thank you for your sincerity. How important is for me. We all have errors and human. And your people's gestures have a lot of value and few men have a courage to do this. I know that the days are not easy for us, for our families and for millions of Brazilians who hope for better days. And it is a book for new stories to be built. Stories based on truth, respect, and hope. There is a Brazil waiting to be rebuilt and it is certain that all of us can be united to take this from before. Let's do this by my husband and his father and by each of Brazilians who want a better Brazil and our proposal for the people's well-being has always been the biggest of the misunderstanding. That's why I apologize. Let's sit, let's talk and adjust the details and together we will reunite a great disaster of people well to rescue our Brazil. We do this for our biggest leader in the country installing a woman's skin and for a Brazil that needs people's skin not to be divided. I want to thank very special way my friends, Celina Leão and Maris Alves who worked hard at night so that this time of reconciliation could happen. Friends, thank you very much. God is in control of everything and God bless us. Let's solve the things now in front of the cameras too. Can I sing? Yes, I can sing. Oh, my heart is invading. Seeing this video I remembered this music. But I ask you, Carla, Lini and also our spectator will do the same. Will you believe they did the same? Because even the PL will be present in the section of the documentary of the candidate on the 5th of this weekend. I remember Lini's comment and I think I'm asking this because people know when this kind of speech will be and when it will be I want to know please, please please, please what do you think of this video of the Bolsonaro if you are also relieved with this tree and proclaimed the tree on the right. And what do you think? Do you think this tree will last or will it last a little while maybe? And this tree that was built with a lot of difficulty will go all the way to the bottom. What do you think of this? I confess to you, Carla and Lini, that I still have the push behind the wall only that I won't follow this novel because I will be different but it seems that I will be more close to the end of the end of the day to finish with you and of course we will put people apart of everything that is happening in Brazil Yes, I agree with Paulo I think that even when the politics we always have to look with confidence and we know that despite having tried to minimize the impact of this video that Michele published and that has one month and that has opened all this front of the same house inside Bolsonaro's family of the attitude, of the exchange of weapons and that also the exit of Michele of the woman of the Alves and the vice-president of Michele and also the critic of the attacks that have been made by the supporters of the Bolsonaro's party and that comes in impacting the whole general mode in the image of Flávio after the exit of Michele Bolsonaro in front of the president of the woman Flávio was reunited with the female leaders from the liberal before the launch of that campaign is really a plan for them that was launched by the Flávio Bolsonaro and also a movement of Flávio and the campaign to try to approach the image of his president of the female leader we know that Michele despite all the critics that are made she has a strong presence and a great support from the female party both of the female members from the PL and other allies is a figure seen as a person who has a big support so this distance between her and Flávio Bolsonaro despite not changing the vote that who votes will have on October 4 in this movement in this campaign in the attempt to approach Flávio from the female leader now that he comes to the public to apologize that Michele responds to this public movement once again with a look of the same or not of the same as the other party to see a moment of delay and we have to keep the scenes of the next chapters of this novel to understand what will be the participation of Michele in this campaign we had last week in Romeusema saying that Michele could be in his campaign and the liberal party did not declare to the public saying that Michele could be in Flávio then he also brought a speech narrative with this possibility that another party was looking for all this movement in this context and we have to see how we will get to the next chapters the fact is that Michele's relationship with the girls from Bolsonaro Carlos Eduardo Flávio in this political context after Michele assumed the leadership of the girl only having more tricks so this is the way Michele said in the video they will sit and talk and then we will have to see how this trick will be to be closed in practice so let's do the next one so we can continue and we will wrap up before we talk a little bit with our interview and we will talk about the relationship between Bolsonaro and President Luda let's go Brazilian industrialism President Paraná St. Katarina and the Paraguay and the 17th and 27th movement of the economy and the opportunity to Brazil and more than 103 countries this is the air cooperating to improve the life of people the elections and the elections are not only balanced but also balanced in the sense of numbers because we saw a lot of emotional balance of all parts of all sides I will now call our interview that I am Murilo Idao who is the director of the institute to discuss the issues and he is a public opinion related between Lula and Flavio Bolsonaro do you still miss the period to grow or other cell phones when you they stay for 60 days especially after the appearance of the future We are going to make a connection here with Murilo because of the Internet signal, we are already going to talk to him. Meanwhile, we are going to enter into the subject, which, of course, you must have seen that it is popping up there, the issue of the ex-executive Alexandre Flota that provoked a revolt between the Gervou Sonarou's allies to simulate during a radio program a connection to the president. Although there is no identification of that interlocutor who talked to him, this information, the signal that the sonarou would have attended the phone, which would represent a meeting, for example, of the restrooms imposed during the Mecilear press. We will hear this call. It's not interval, it's not interval, it's like that. It's not credible, right? It's not credible. The defense of Bolsonaro was denied any contact and it claimed that he did not have access to his allies. Flávio Bolsonaro classified attitude as a revolting and dishuman. Let's take a look at the manifestation of Flávio in the publication he did in the X. Let's go. The level of moral degradation of some people is surreal. Simular, which Gervou Sonarou, including the Mecilear press, would have attended a connection with his ally with the only intuit of the innocent jail, persecuted and mistreated to the extremely revolting of the human. Do you think that this lie can result in another conflict with the concrete Bolsonaro? If it turns out that it is proof that we are not in the democratic state of right now, there is a long way. And then there is a very serious situation, even though we are still trying to understand this between the black and white people. Flávio Van Garten, who also made a critical statement to this incineration, asked that the enemy does not fight with the innocent. This is a very delicate question, we already know what is happening between the STF and the situation of Bolsonaro specifically, a persecution without end, and still make this kind of thing. Paulo. What did the alien show, right? Alexandre Froota? To talk about it. And at the end, he said, what fear is that I have been wrong, I don't know what, I just finished my head, anyway, that being a deplorable human is this lady there, Alexandre Froota, the subject that has already made my adult film and now is entering this political range that also does not let it be pornographic. Froota, we have already reached the lowest level so that someone can get to the beach with those films that he made and then he makes this little joke. And we are talking about here a lady from 62 years of age, obviously, who is wanting to appear and the intuit, the other intuit, besides wanting to appear, he also wants to obviously create a political and prejudicate the President of Bolsonaro, he wants Alexandre to live. See this there, take this audio and again, the President of Bolsonaro, in the paper because he has been framed the rules of the prison of the domiciliar, that he is subjected to the chance to speak here and legally, unjustly, also. And I know, this looks like a bobo, it looks like an irrelevant move to bring this joke of the Alexandre Froota's taste, as if it were a fact, the journalist, but it looks like that, because nobody knows what it is, let's eat, it will believe that that aloe and represents this, it really was Bolsonaro who attended the phone, but who said, who said that our authorities, that our minister Alexandre de Morais, is in this consciousness? Who is proud that Alexandre de Morais will assist the images or to hear this audio there, does not think of, suddenly, a manifestation of the general procuratoria of the Republic commanded by his coup in Cha Paulo, Gronet. And today I will give my comment here, I want to highlight the role of the other involved in this whole pattern, I do not know if they are journalists, if they are influential, if they are the malucos, which one? It seems all combined, right? There is a person speaking with your little girl, I know this voice, who is it? It seems to me that it is a animation. No, it seems to me that they make this role of clowning, creating this suspect everyone, in search of fame, in search of engagement, really a deplorable episode. Who voted on the fruit there, guys, raise your hand here on the chat, you put the vote of you, Mr. John Ben, what are you going to do here for the party? The fruit that was one of the most voted deputies, right? In 2018, right? Exactly, but now we have to find something that confesses that voted on the fruit, it was like a color, it was repaired in our generation, our parents, question, who voted on the color, it seems that color didn't get that connection, because someone added that vote on Dilma too. Dilma also had this phenomenon. Shut up, my people! Let's continue here, because now the subject is the Zambelian. The Italian justice firm did not have the evidence of the political persecution against the Zambelian, but the tradition of the Exhibition was not yet decided. The Russian office is going to explain to us what changes now from this moment in the process. The justice of Italy has rejected the main arguments of the deputies, the licenciate of the Zambelian prison, in the process of referring to the persecution to a political dissapointing in São Paulo, in the age of presidential election of 2022. The tribunal announced the decision about this edition and determined that the case has been re-evaluated by another court decision of the Pelação de Roma to analyze the related guarantees to the health treatment of this parliamentary parliament. The decision was offered in the first July and established that the Brazilian authorities must have informed detailed information about the medical conditions that the Zambelian prison has been treated. The objective is to verify if she can receive continuous follow-up on the female prison penitentiary of the federal district, known as Komeia, or transferred to the health and necessary community. The Italian justice firms also rejected the allegations of the execution carried out by the STF, would have been marked by lack of impartiality or political motivation, in the same way, to face the arguments of the Prisional Unisambelian prison, which should be with the prepener, the present degradant conditions that would prevent its extradition. According to the court, the only question that is undesired is the analysis of the respective clinical framework of the deputies. The medical officer, Nexado, has been appointed to the point that she presents a health condition considered complex and needs permanent specialized accompaniment, given by which the Italian justice needs to guarantee the former before deciding about the fate of the Brazilian. Paul, the decision to defecate the defense of Zambelian prison, we have noticed that the exit of the prison was very heavy, very happy because of its own family that goes through bad sides and still goes through bad sides. No, no doubt about it, no one is afraid of defecating it. I need to reinforce here that Zambelian is the truth of two actions. This decision, then, has to do with that action that Zambelian condemned, to leave the STF to put the weapon to a street subject, the vests of the election of 2022, you must remember this episode. It is another one, has to do with that invasion of the system, from the CNJ with the help of the hacker. The first action of the weapon, Zabelian, pointing the weapon, is for the subject that was played there for this Supreme Court. Italian was not considered this as a political persecution and they even say that you bring the armed weapon without the support of the armed street, the armed weapon, for the subject also is crimes in Italy, so that Zabelian can simply have announced its process of extradition. Now, this is the hope of Zambelian in another case, in the case of the invasion of the CNJ system. The hope of it is that in this case, the political persecution, which is my view, but I am a jurist, and not a jurist, much less a jurist, Italian, my view has a clear component of political persecution. And, Carla, before we continue, I just wanted to apologize to our guest, Murillo and Dalgo, but unfortunately we were with the problem of connection and it was complicated. We asked him, there is no response. Murillo, we hope to see you here in the near future, because I think it is very important to clarify our expectations, our agency, there are many doubts about the researches and the electoral research. It is a very controversial topic, always in the beginning of the year, I would like to comment here that the person was eating the electoral research, and the answer is right because the flag was going to appear in front of it, then suddenly there was a turn, Murillo even started to explain this turn, the person returned to disconfigure, so Murillo, we tell you how much presence is in the week that comes, and suddenly to clarify our audience, everything they want to know about the researches, but they never had anyone to ask. Okay, Carla? Okay, Murillo, thank you very much, we are now talking about you again, okay? Well, let's talk about a subject that I imagine you should be so curious. The star of the Odyssey of Christopher Nolan. That's right, I'll read who? For a melancholic constation, this lady who speaks Pozo 9. This experience of cinema has just happened, it's a question that we were even discussing when cinema was in the street, for example. Things were very different. You had access to these films, and I remember, I don't know if you remember that in your city, in your region, the access was facilitated even in cinema. The income was not so expensive, because I don't remember, it didn't exist at that time, but the access seemed much easier and the ease of you to watch really felt that madness that we came today inside the shop. Yes, I got this hook from the Odyssey of Christopher Nolan. My son is doing a lot of pressure for the movie, probably three hours of movie, and the last movie of the movie, The Open Himer, I even made a piece of rock, I think it was a bomb, that movie. So I was, in a way, already in the Odyssey of Nolan, in the right-hand side, in the cultural side, we said that, people just talk about this movie. And also our producer, I don't know if you know, but Andrepo Glesi is a great filmmaker, and he was here talking about a movie called, Or Convite, Glesi, you're going to forgive me, I'm going to leave the fairs, I had to jump out of the way you know, in the way. And then I was thinking, I was remembering, because I have many memories to write, of everything that happened in the cinema halls, films that I watched, from the first movie, remember the first movie, the first movie that you watched in the movie, I remember, it was the Trafalhoes and the Magic of Horos, in the Sinner Lido, here in Curitiba. I remember, I have this memory of where I watched, you know, Indiana Jones, where I watched Force Gun, Pillista de Chinda, I remember, but then with some melancholy, I was remembering this, because I realized that I think I will never go back to the cinema. Last time I went and watched the movie, I was here, again, in my office, I'm talking about my office, but it's very complicated to watch the movie today, because the person is connected, he gets on WhatsApp, he gets talking, and so on. And that's obviously that bothers me, but this person is not the main problem, and then maybe it's a common problem, there are a lot of people. My problem, in fact, is concentration. My concentration, I'm talking about it, it's very prejudiced, I can't stay for three hours in the cinema, I can talk to my wife, for example, without doing a research, about something I saw, about the movie, about the author, about some fact. So imagine, I'm watching where I can't even research, I don't know what I'm going to do. And then I wrote this text, and it's really a false idea, probably, my son will come to this piece of cake, probably tomorrow, I'll be back in the cinema, watching this, I'm watching this, I'm going to tell you something. My uncle was there for my part, I'll tell you quickly, for you, my first job was in a video location. I had 13 to 14 years. And I had to watch many movies at the time, to indicate movies to people. So my uncle was there when he finished the VHS. That's it. I suffered a little bit, but the cinema continues, and it's stronger than ever, because it's gaining a lot of money, comparing it with years ago. No, and this movie is attracting a lot of people to the cinema. There are also two movies that make a lot of success in the movies, they can take people to the cinema, which is the Obsession and the Backroons. I really like the... I'll call it a very pernostical term, that movie-synomatographic experience. I really like that. But something lost, my concentration is really predicated. Now I've had an idea, about the video-synomatographic experience. I also have good videos of the video-synomatographic experience. Let's continue here, because now we have Alexandre Garcia analyzing the effects of Tarifasso on the Agro-Negosti, we talked about that today, and the advance of the violence in a traditional and cultural and cultural report. In a traditional, electoral report of the PT. We're talking about this. In the past month, we see the question of violence in the United States, the PT. The background is with Tarifasso and let the violence take a look of the PT. In the electoral year, they're starting to talk about the conventions. We remember the responsibility of the parties. I left here on the annual security public. The most secure part of Brazil is in the Northeast. The 10 cities more secure in Brazil, the first and second third of the Northeast and the biggest part in the Bahia. Then in the Sierra. In the Bahia, there are five in the Sierra, in Perna Boku and one in the Paralympic. Between the 10 more dangerous. I don't know if they are only cities or municipalities. And because of the incidence, Bahia, the PT government, the PT government, and the public security will be the main issue of the PT government, the Senators, and the presidential campaign. Everyone feels this. There is a candidate who zeroes the crime in the state of his. I won't give the name to the state because it can appear in the electoral campaign. But this will be a very important factor. Knowing who is the public security is responsible for the possibility of two federal states. This is good that federal crimes are already in the federal area. And as today is centralized in Brazil, the power is the Republic of the Federalist Republic of Brazil is only on the paper, only on the Constitution. In practice, the Republic is the unit of Brazil. The government could be provisional and not state. Because if the government is in the center that has the biggest part of the taxes, of distribution of the taxes, then there is also power. Just to remember. Another thing. Lula made elections and elections. Let's retaliate the United States. We are applying tariff on people. Let's retaliate. I'm glad that he doesn't say it's a China. I'm glad that the next companies in Brazil from China to China, the next Chinese importations in Brazil will be 67% of the tax. The tax is normal. It's more than 55%. Because the trade is short. Lula is not. Europe also in Brazil is discompending the European Union. The European Union is applying antibiotics to hang out. So, from September, there is no more. If Brazil wants to make a counter-intuitive campaign that applies to the EU, the EU will take 30 months to hang out and defend. 30 more than two years. I was talking about retaliation. The EU. Do you know what the consequence is? No, Trump will be angry and let it be angry. It's the Brazilian, who depends on American machines, who depends on the Brazilian who depends on the media, the United States, the laboratory, who depends on chemical products, the industry, who depends on chemical products that come from the United States. The rural producer, who depends on certain machines that only have in the United States, will be furious. Because there will be more to pay. Because Brazil is very complicated. It's about taxes. My God, the Heaven. It seems that the brain abandoned the brain, right? Well, it had more. Again, I will insist on these two quick questions. Repito, do not bring the rivers of the south, the scales of the rivers are entwined with any rain, transborder. Do you want to occupy the governments, the men? Number one. And number two, I'm seeing here, on the Patreon, I will repeat Brazil. It is the biggest adulterer from Agosto in the country of the world. It applies 32% of alcohol in the country. It's amazing. This is not in the world. The world will go up to 10%. Because you know that 11% is the limit. The exception of India is 20%. But India has a billion and 400 million inhabitants. The problems of India are very good. Our interests, the respect that the state should have by the city. The city of the people, the owners of vehicles, the gasoline engine, and the auto-move. Brazilian, the Alexandre Garcia. Always a bad one for us, the Alexandre Garcia. He is also presenting the message here in the chat. Talking about the Alexandre Garcia. You see here, the only Alexandre that is not represented is the Garcia. Marcelo Morante, here, even Marciala said, Gasolina, Douterade, we continue paying exactly the good ones up there, right? An important question that we bring now for you is the following, Brazil is common, I want you to express a lot of attention to this report we made, because we tell a story for you about masses of federal government paid by Brazil who are aware of the cause and who is paying the story, is you, me, Paulo, everyone. Brazil is common, the Ministry of Secretaries, Foundations and State companies, with functions on posts and millionary or even billionaires. A report from the Povolista Gazeta, 10 organs that could be extinct, incorporated to other structures or then transferred to the own states, for initiative private too. The Russian brings us a little of this scenario, it's just 10, it's us. We've been there for 10, but there's a lot more. Look, look at that. With public despises increasing without stopping and the first deficit in the 42 billion reais house, the government doesn't know how to balance the accounts, the exclusive levant of the Gazeta do Povol, the 10 organs and the federal hierarchy with low effectiveness that could be widely absorbed by other existing pastures, causing the release of the Orcamento. An example of the Ministry of Pesca, which is low in the Secretary of the Government, it resorted as the Ministry in 2023, in the government of Nula, by gaining the annual property of 270 million. The former telephonic state of the Telebrace phone also appears in the list, back to the management of infrastructure in communication, the company in the market was already a big part of its recipe, even so follow the union hands that disembossed the annual amount of 426 thousand reais just to pay the salary of the directors. With a 22 million reais, the Secretary of the Juventude National was recruited by Mula to ministrate the program Eid Joven and the National Public Art School in the Juventude National. On the YouTube channel, where there are only 469 last published by the organ was seven years. For some reason it is difficult to understand the metropolitan train system of Porto Alegre in Rio Grande do Sul is the responsibility of the federal government, which generates more than 300 million per year only to cover operational and maintenance. The Orcamento Previsto for the company comes to 480 million. Brazilians also manage the distance, the market of interposts and weapons in São Paulo, C.A.J.S.P. The company was federalized in 1997 when a financial crisis was passed and results in a $145 million of $145 million. Paulo, is it missing the political courage to reduce the weight of the state? Did the state have a problem? They have orders here that we showed that it is required to send millions to directors, so that no one can call the company. The director has won, I think, more than 400,000 reais per year. I really like this material of my dear friend Gabriel Diarruda, the case, Gabriel, who came to Curitiba, and who was going to be a virgin in Gabriel. So, look, I really like it, I even asked for the Rosanna to do this material. Because, man, the governments, they are creating these little guns to embrace their allies, those small fish that earn a salary, so that they would never win in the private initiative and suddenly with a load of confidence in these little guns they can have a salary very good there, and we will be forgetting, right? So, it was a great job of the Gabriel to bring all these organs, people, who have a cost, huge, many times, it doesn't imply, wow, many times they develop this in the text, for example, the Ministry of you, politically correct here, I don't remember the exact term to use native peoples, indigenous people, I don't know how you say that, but anyway, this Ministry has no function that is redundant, because the government always has to do this, and that is the role of protection in indigenous peoples, native peoples, I don't know how right to say that today, this has a cost, and the law has only created this to embrace political allies, allies of occasion, and without saying in people, in public politics, for the poisonous people who each push this one, promote in their area. Open a little space, quickly. The TCU, this news here, we have from 2024, the TCU opened a research about the indigenous peoples, for being in gas, 11 millions of travel travelers, 11 millions of travel travelers. So, how is the Ministry of indigenous peoples? So, if I offended someone who was talking about the military, and the Gabriel, in the end of the cons, he just got 10, and I am sure that these push-ups are much more, but if we take we are also focused on national political policy, how many push-ups do not exist in the state governments, and in more than 5,000 municipalities in this country. It is impressive. And these 11 millions were to go through the passage of the areas and the pedagogy, not the servers. You are understanding the gravity of this, guys. And this is the beginning of the management of the Gist of Sonya and the portal of transparency, of course, showed and fell on top. And this is the very important thing, that is, the government has nothing to do with youth. So, you see how these push-ups serve as a company's cabin. That's right. It is the program of youth solidarity that would be national youth. In the credit room. For what? The federal federal Supreme Court will criticize those who are expected about electronic areas. During the International Literary Office it stated not to believe that someone without consciousness is still questioning the system, that the equipment is going through 9 tests and auditors. And then the question of the responsibility of the Zoom during a event with representatives and at least 42 countries. Defend the security of the Zoom needs to be disqualified, who asks now, Mr. Paulo Puzonof. I don't believe someone without consciousness is still in the flip, which is a converse code of intellectuals. Look, the guy, the guy is there in the flip, I think he's going to replace me. Suddenly, you can talk to him about this lecture. The term is interesting. The term is in the Ministry of Justice. It seems to be understood that the classic of Gibaret Rosa, who is completing 70 years. I will repeat what I said yesterday. Question the electrical areas of the electoral process of the electoral system is not crime. It should not be crime in any democracy. It should not be crime in any state. Question the public people. Don't believe in the instruments of the state. Absolutely. Legitimate. Not only that. It is our duty to see how journalists are. The term is clear that the state is the most transparent process. And if the population is forgetting something, if the population wants the mechanism of the vote, the price, the vote is auditable. The state is the people of the state. All the electoral authorities are doing this appeal, which is a considerable population. If I am not mistaken, 40% of the last research I saw people have a kind of doubt. How much is the electoral process? The MEDUSA is a gas station. It is absolutely legitimate that we demand the state that the state satisfies this duty. Explain this to the state and explain why. This insistence in saying that the electoral process is perfect. The perfect urnations can not question. If the government would have a lot of tools to do not just critical, but not doing it. Now we will talk about Maratín. It seemed that he was not deep enough to react 4 days to the declaration of dictator Daniel Ortega that he will not have more elections in caragua. While other countries and international organizations were quickly talking about Daniel Ortega, the vote suppression government voted a note, saying that it is preoccupied and defending a direct condemnation the announcement of any diplomatic measure the Sandinist regime in the end of this thread. Our democracy elections Ortega is in power since 2007 and not in the middle of the fraud, repression, perseguition, adversaries and so on. The government has a courage to repress the regime of Daniel Ortega to the 9th. If I have information about Ortega suspended, and it suspended the registration of at least 2000 lawyers from Nicaragua. The government wants to say that they are able to exercise their role, their role is in the country. According to the press, the estimate of these 2000 lawyers have been affected. So, this measure can be even more. The government does not have the right to repress the dictatorship of Ortega. Many things happen in Nicaragua. We talked about some of them, they also have a lack of defreation, the lack of people and this is just a point of the iceberg. I do not know if there is any journalist there. And then, the story of the Catholic also. Very persecuted. The problem is, who influenced who? I said this in the program of yesterday too. Is it Nicaragua that will influence the future of Brazil, the future dictatorial, the future of Brazil. It is unoccupied. For me, the son is there. To get the flight to the airport. I'm very worried if he could get the flight. It is the future of the country. People who live jumping notes. You know what it is called, the speech of the DSEE. It is a very effective reporting these recent declarations of the Lula Amigand, the Daniel Ortega. Now Carla, I didn't expect something else. It is a very contaminated and ideologically. The cabinet of the P.T. already government the country in other moments. In the end of the 70s, in the 80s. So there is a story there. And then it is a familiar dictatorship. We know that the family made this dominance of the country. So our concern with the Nicaraguans and the situation they live in is a regime that dominates and is a situation that people, even where I commented, are in the minimum three generations that we have commanded for this alienation of Ortega. We continue here talking about the Ravier Milley. Let's go to Argentina this time. The president Argentine Ravier Milley left the defense. Look at the people talking about the game again. It is the defense of the players Argentine were criticized for costs during the spring election. And also, they always see in the confusions all we noticed. Not only with the champions, but also with other elections. The episode that still has been added, so to make the confusion of them in the field. To comment on the reactions, Milley welcomed a lot of people. The enemy means that someone defended something in a certain moment of life. It was the second time in few days that the president had entered the debate about the coup after responding to clear actions. For example, Giuliani Messe, about the economic difficulties of the population, which Messe did this critical government. And then Milley confused the national fault of sportivity because it is appearing. We are begging for this. Something weird about the people begging for Argentina. Well, about this phrase, Milley, tremendous of a tolicious, now about the reaction, almost a week from the end of the coup, is a joke because people, Argentina, I don't know if you know, but they really believe that they were prejudiced in the world. When the whole world speaks the opposite, that they were favored, they really believe that they were prejudiced with that expulsion, obviously, that will be missing the name of the player, but that he did the other there, he gave a pirouette, damn, it was a different value, but they say that they were prejudiced and even a petition asking that the end of the world is already annulled by FIFA. Look, I want to say that I am extremely favored of this petition, even I will there, I think to assign this petition online that I want to see the Spanish to accept the Argentina in a new final, damn. So, you are talking about the world's atty-type movements, look at this from here, for this tension. Atty-type movements adore this, this term, in the posts raised a doubt about integrity from the parties from the World Cup of 2006. Look, look, it was not just a talk of the people, so, the thing is being serious. The Copenhagen group identified seven yellow alertes in 104 games analyzed from the World Cup. Among the episodes that are about this purification, the red card received by Tamba and the time to go to the goal of Ferrantorries. Also, the attention is the volume of 4.8 million dollars moved in the poll market in the post about Spain not going to be the cover-up. The cases were considered suspects and took the opening of the opposition by the international group. So, everything that was being seen on the Internet by the people who watch football and are realizing that these bets can be influencing, especially many of the results now has become the investment tree. This growth of these bets really puts the credibility of the results in football, because we realize that this is not just for those but for the companies and many players involved in this too. The bets took a good part of what was the credibility of the football. It is clear that there is always doubt and question and legitimacy and question the results of the football. And there are many episodes. There were cases of Mal, Malapreto, Brancelac, Côre, Kama, a club, the players and other clubs to lose. And, also, Foclóricas, as a castor of Andrade. And, of course, Juízes, Foclóricos, of course, it was always very normal to question and doubt certain releases, certain episodes of the football. But today, it is possible to deny that there is this bet and I was watching several games of the world and I was caught, no, this is strange, no, this is not a bet. So, I didn't see this card, this is a bet. In the game, for example, in which I am not using anyone, I am talking about something that happened by my head, if it is still allowed. But in the game, in which the winner, Júñor, delivers the ball to Bruno Guimarães, this is Bruno Guimarães. To lose the penalty, against Norway, in this episode, we have a lot of people talking about why the winner made it. I know, because Bruno Guimarães, the best, I don't know, not with these statistics, can be a chord there, to invest, but it passes by the head of the people, which can be something to see, also with bets. Unfortunately, for the public states, FIFA will have to invest much, but very much in the public to try to reverse this game, very much very much very much in the game. The winner, the winner, with bets, of course, which is huge, but the extra for the expo, too. Exactly. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's talk about the news, the conventions, the games, the events, the football and the games, so, the games, the games, Brazil, this is the desert, the biggest stadium of football here, the federal district, which also receives big games here, the big games, Brazil, anyway. And the games, I will ask you to download a little bit of your microphone, which is storing a little bit, so we can see it. It's a stadium, right? It's in front of it. It's a white fan, right? That stadium there. Look, we forgot the stadiums that were built in someone who uses that stadium there in Manaus, Rio Grande do Norte, right? Look, this is a Gabriel that just did it. We showed here the material of the Gabriel of the Castro street on ten organs in the federals that have no sense of existing games. We have a huge cost, we could also retake this question from the stadiums there, which I imagine that many have been, they have no return to the financial that was waiting after the 2000 and 14th quarter. Let's go there. It's a new contigo. Can this position explain a little bit of the stadium? So, this is the stadium that is in the city of Satélite, called Gama, in the federal district, the name of the stadium is Valmir, with the Bizerra field, but it is known as Bizerrão, everyone knows how Bizerrão here in the federal district, and here in the defes there are other stadiums, but this after a mega-rinsha is the biggest. Well, even in the last coup, which was a day here in Brazil, the Brazilian selection was trained here, before the games that were carried out in the mega-rinsha. And in the female group, from the year that comes, this also should run, the trains should be here, the games are here in the def in the mega-rinsha. Anyway, now talking about politics again. The starting conventions started in the beginning of this week of the 20s, some of the games have already made its conventional conventions and tomorrow, is the time of the Liberal Party to make its convention national, officially launched the name of Bolsonaro to the president of the republic. Even the campaign of Bolsonaro divulged, recently, that in the WhatsApp directly from the campaign, from the campaign makes about five minutes, and then, a video, is invoking, calling, for this convention, tomorrow, it will be there in the arena to get in good in São Paulo, it is planned to start the 10 of the morning, the sportsmen open the eight and 30 there, for the training, also for the delivery of the post-series of all who want to participate in this convention. So, in this video that was divulged by the campaign, Bolsonaro is targeted as a pilot, in an aircraft, in an aeronave, from the Brazilian Air Force, and then, it also appears to have been revealed in another aeronave with the flag of Argentina, they are treated as really partners, as brothers, politicians, and they arrive together in this video. At the stadium, at the place where this convention would be, in which a multidão is treated, remembering that this video is a video that was made by artificial intelligence and, in addition, it brings this alert that is a video of manufactured made by artificial intelligence. This is a agency of electoral justice. Lula and Jânjo also appear in this video, including, in the end of the video, Lula and Jânjo were doing the purchase, there, in which it seems to be a legal opportunity, in Paris, in Fion, in a place outside of Brazil, they are treated with several schools and appears, I read and Flávio Bolsonaro in a screen leaving there, focusing the video, it ends exactly like this. Focusing in the expression of Lula and Jânjo an expression there, of shock, of surprise in the interview, Ravier and Flávio Bolsonaro there in that screen. So, a video that I read, I think it's funny there, in a way they treat the video behind saying that it's a satire, and a video of a more common way, portraying all this scenario, calling for convention of the morning. The morning, then, we should know the vice, or the vice, of Flávio Bolsonaro. In all this context, that we brought this week, a discussion, a articulation of the party, to put a very woman, but also, not discarding a partnership with Siru Nogueira. So, all this must be clarified. This convention is supposed to be presented to those who will be seen in the meeting with Flávio. Despite not having a confirmation of the party, about this, if really the vice will be presented tomorrow. In all the invocations, in all the forms, even invocations for the accessory of Flávio's campaign, does not refer to this, does not refer to the vice. This is a expectation that is being created, because the convention is a moment for this. It is a moment that the official party has its candidatures, not only the president of the republic, but also the state governments, the federal Senators, or the deputies' camera. So, it is a moment in which we must know. But, in all the way, the party has until the day 5 of August, the electoral justice extends a little to this sentence, until the day 15 of August, so that the parties, so that these figures record to the TSE, the names of these candidates. So, the expectation is that tomorrow we know the vice or the vice, Flávio, but the party has a sentence, until the day 5 of August, being extended, until the day 15 of August, to officialize this. But, this week, this week, to the campaigns, the president of the republic, in the domain, even, is the convention of the fall, in the hat with Roberto Casab, the convention will also be carried out in São Paulo. In the second party, is the convention of the Romeusema, which is still not defined, not divulged, who is the vice. The convention will be carried out here in Brasilia, in the central area, in Brasilia, which is marked to start the 11 and a half of the morning, this in the second party. So, the morning, Sunday and second party are days decisive for these candidates, the president of the republic, in which we will have to know. Not only the names that are already known and will be officialized, but know there. Who will be the vice of Flávio and the Romeusema? Congratulations, Línea, I want to thank you for today. Next party, we will come with all this conversation. Of course, we will know the agreements. Who is the vice of? Who is in the legenda at the end of the count? And finally, organize everything for us to understand who will be the candidates and the real ones for these next elections. Thank you very much, I wish you a good rest, until next week. Thank you, Carla. Just a quick more information of a moment, a break news, to inform that the defense of the president already Bolsonaro ran the USTF in that decision of the Minister of the moral standards that suspended the visit of Flávio Bolsonaro to the president, and the president, and also about the manifestations about the prohibition of Bolsonaro to write letters. This defense, so this resource, was presented today, and now little, this is a information that came now, even here, for me, and that we bring here and at the last moment, in the first hand, to our viewers of our agency. But next week, we talk better about this, about all the politicians' ambassadors, next week, will be a very move-in that, with certain parts of second, we have many repercussions of all these conventions that will occur between tomorrow and the second of the 27th. Well, a hug for you, thank you for the program today, and until the second it was a good rest, good weekend. Thank you very much, thank you very much, big thanks for you, good rest, and I want to leave here a little bit to Mr. David Pozonoff, who will complete his 18-year-old son here. He has completed his 18-year-old son. 18-year-old son. 18-year-old son. A comment on the rap, two quick comments. The first, a correction that I would refer to that stadium there, I was not seeing here, the line audio, like the Manega Rincha, which was built for the cost of the orbiters, made here a speech, because of the stadiums and it's not the BZR, and another comment about this news that Aline had just given, that the defense of the president making the paper of her, the problem that those who will decide this resource will choose to live, and so on, saying his name, will choose to live, the expression and leave the difference, right? That's it, some days he will rest his head and return to us for this week, and of course, we are here again, even more waiting for you, a big kiss, good weekend, take care. Thank you.