---
video_title: "NOTÍCIAS DA MANHÃ: EUA renovam emergência nacional e citam decisões do STF | CAFÉ COM A GAZETA"
video_id: Wk10lzvCVgs
channel_name: "Gazeta do Povo"
channel_id: UCWdGgeyOnCOGnvhNdbVl1dQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wk10lzvCVgs
video_date: 2026-07-29T14:41:04+00:00
video_description: |
  O governo dos Estados Unidos estendeu nesta terça-feira (28) por um ano a emergência nacional que o presidente Donald Trump havia decretado em 2025 em relação ao Brasil. A norma será publicada na quarta-feira (29) no Federal Register, o diário oficial americano.
  
  “Em 30 de julho de 2025, por meio da Ordem Executiva 14.323, declarei uma emergência nacional em relação ao Brasil, nos termos da Lei de Poderes Econômicos de Emergência Internacional [Ieepa, na sigla em inglês] para enfrentar a ameaça incomum e extraordinária — originada total ou substancialmente fora dos Estados Unidos — à segurança nacional, à política externa e à economia dos Estados Unidos, constituída por políticas, práticas e ações do Governo do Brasil que interferem na economia dos Estados Unidos, violam os direitos de liberdade de expressão de pessoas americanas, violam direitos humanos e prejudicam o interesse dos Estados Unidos em proteger seus cidadãos e empresas”, escreveu Trump na nova norma.
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀   
  
  ☑️ GAZETA TOTAL! ☑️ Garanta já o seu acesso ao melhor jornal independente do Brasil por apenas R$ 1,90/mês nos 6 primeiros meses. Acesse:  https://gazpovo.com/guMmN-2X 
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀   
  
  ☕ O Café com a Gazeta do Povo é o programa matinal que abre o dia com informação, análise e opinião sobre os principais assuntos do momento. Em um formato leve e dinâmico, os jornalistas da Gazeta comentam o que está em destaque no noticiário político, econômico e cultural, ajudando o público a começar a manhã bem informado e com contexto.  Além da cobertura dos acontecimentos em tempo real, as "breaking news" estarão na pauta diária do Café.
  
  🎤Apresentação: Guilherme Oliveira e Lucas Saba
  📞Produção: Gabriel Fidalgo Lopes Duarte 
  📹Operação de vídeo: Lucas Lencin e BRN Estudio
  ✉️ cafe@gazetadopovo.com.br
  
  🕖O Café com a Gazeta do Povo vai ao ar de segunda a sexta, às 7h. Reprises a partir das 16h30.
  👁️Conheça a programação da Gazeta do Povo: https://bit.ly/3XHsYIH
  
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀   
  
  CANAL NO WHATSAPP! Receba o melhor dos conteúdos da Gazeta em nosso canal no Whats. São reportagens, artigos, ebooks, áudios, vídeos e muito mais. Acesse o link e ative o sininho de notificações ao lado do nome do canal: https://www.whatsapp.com/channel/0029Va59gOS4NVikz4MWzI0p
  
  
  #Trump #EUA #STF
---
Hello, everyone. I'm Silica Nagazeta, the poet. It's starting with a coffee with the gas. Your heart is ready to inform you right away. And I invite you to do a part of our coffee, leaving your like, your comment, your talk. And of course, sharing our program with your family and friends and so on, everyone is very well informed. Let's call it to be a session. Let's call it to be a session of the town's gas. It's in the gas screen total, 90 per month, the first six months. Have you ever heard of it? To facilitate your life. There's a link in the description of YouTube. It's worth to subscribe and value the day of the gas. Let's also call it to be our member club. You have access to exclusive content, produced by our commentaries, columnists and representatives. You have to record on the screen, also my friends. Many things to talk about this fourth year. We talked, we went to the problem, artificial intelligence business, not because it was wrong, because nothing was wrong. But because the wrong ones that are in the Supreme Court, let's give them a good day to my friend. Lucas, do you know the right to say, Paulo? You know, good day, everything is fine? Good day, Guilherme Oliveira. Good day to everyone in the coffee with the gas of the people. Or we found ourselves in the 12 of the plenguin, without wheels, and here in the coffee too, that's working very well. We already knew that it would be more or less this empty. And now we have the minister, Gui, Alexandre Morais, always him in all the munchets. If not him, it's his very good wife Vivian Barzi. She has 129 million reasons to be in the munchet of all the newspapers now. 48 hours to explain the video of A. That's it, now the wife of them explain the contract. Then Gui. Well, my friend, Lucas will not be missing from work, who will die, because the day has not arrived yet, I think Flávio is not there too, so let's work together here, with our audience, sending a big hug to everyone. Lucas mentioned these 48 hours, we have a new art, and serious transgression that we will bring to the screen, Morais is a highlight that is the event of the Concordance of Bolsonaro, the co-advigation of the video, can configure a new and serious transgression, and can lead to the immediate reversion of the domiciliar prison to the regime closed in the prison system. Casual as president, no, I have agreed with the production of the video, the minister signed that, in addition to the constitution of the respect to the judicial order by Flávio and by the PL, the conduct of power will be typified, the denomination of deep fake, practiced expressly and widely, by electoral legislation. The minister pointed out that deep fake is characterized by the creation or the deviance of the synthetic content, made it scientifically associated with the image, the voice, the manifestation of determined by the person, the candidate. From the political cause, without its express authorization. It started, it started, what we have already imagined, my friend Lucas knows, in relation to the videos, or to the video, shown in the last weekend's convention, for more than anything, absolutely nothing illegal, no law being infringed. What were the laws, for example, infringed by Bolsonaro, is the prison? What were the crimes committed for the debauchery of the baton, and so many others were condemned by so many KDE years? So, why don't you worry if it's right or wrong? Even if it's right, they won't give a way to do what that is, become a mistake. Morais and so many other ministries of the STF, my friend Lucas Sava, come with us, one more, that unfortunately, we have already been waiting for us, we were waiting for it. And it doesn't happen, but we were waiting for the head to be able to do it in that sense, right Sava? And you know what I think, too, that the minister, Alexandre Morais, a hope in the president of the Electoral Superior Electoral House, Casino Nismarx, because he is the director of this case of the Iado Bolsonaro can or not, and despite it still has not decided, or it was very clear, in relation to that, you can work with Iado in elections, there is no problem, you can't use Iado for attacking your political position. And that wasn't what Bolsonaro did. Bolsonaro, in the video of Iado, is asking for the support or the child, the candidate, from the liberal party, representing the conservatives, the right union, and a good luck in the elections. That is, you can make a video with Iado Bolsonaro, this is a misunderstanding of the minister, Casino Nismarx, president of the Electoral Superior Electoral House, of which he can, for example, say that he finished the work, an example of the transformation of the Rizom Francisco. He can talk about the picks, he can talk about his government, the homicides fall, anyway, he can talk about what he did in the pandemic fight, this he can do. What he can't do is a video with Iado criticizing, for example, Lula, the Adad, this he can't do. What he can't do? Then what did the Morais do? Oops! So, for TSE, what he did, is right, is valid, so I'll do the following, I'll push here for me, because in my decision that he condemned 27 years and three months in the state's state's court, he can't do anything, nor breathe. He can't have a card, he can't have a social network, he can't have a video for A, even though, look, he asks for the Morais defense. This video was made by the Liberal Party. Bolsonaro was not aware of the creation of this video, what the defense will respond, then creating a theory that is the following. And I don't think the conspiracy theory is going to be a surprise. The defense, signed by the Vogue of the Civil War, will say, look, Bolsonaro, he doesn't have to know what each one does with his image, because it's not just the Flavio, the candidates, the Senado, the state's state, the federal, let's imagine with him, he doesn't have to, you, call a country, how many candidates have in Brazil, of my God, of North-East, of the L.S.S. then what will the Morais do? The Flavio campaign, guys, is becoming a part of it, is becoming a personal one. It's on the face, let's do it, go ahead, put on the table the three-way decision of the Minister of the Morais elections, look, on the other hand, if there is no customization of the cost of the day, already issued the Bolsonaro, which is exactly what I said, he didn't know for the use of his image, in your case, for political declarations, in the electoral, in addition to constitute this judicial order, Flavio Bolsonaro and the PL, such a conduct can typify the denomination of the Pfeik, practically expressly given by the electoral legislation. Once, there will be, look, another mistake of his decision that also has been made by the A, but not the Pfeik, the characterization of the creation of the synthetic content, intended to socially associate with the image of your or the manifestation of determined person to the candidate, from the political cause without its press authorization. It is true the use of the electoral propaganda is either its form or the modality of manufactured and manipulated content to fund facts notoriously inveridicals or uncontactualized with the potential to cause damage to the balance of the plight or the integrity of the process. It is forbidden use to justify or to favor the candidate of synthetic content in the form of audio, video, or combination of both. That has been generated or manipulated digitally, even as an authorized to create, replace, or alter the image of the voice of your life, false or fake. Guilherme Oliveira, we have a question here it will stick to any hole in the attempt to punish the plight, take the plight of the plight, punish even more Bolsonaro. If he could transform this only 27 to 54 he would do. Now, think about me. In 2018, there was no way my origin was wrong with this chronological order. The campaign of Adage if used by Lula will never be a single plight. Lula, the press, of old videos, etc. I didn't hear anyone talking about fake. Everyone knew that Lula was trapped in the room of the police of the UNC. Everyone knew that Lula was a former video that Lula was a former former I mean otros… There are nothing to fail to let people know. We are publishing a very big film that doesn't support bills because, most reasons are from these paper studios because you'd be able to of the Electoral Tribunal, allowing that there be used the election, telling that with the House of the Electoral Propaganda, and that you are not used to that to criticize the colleague, if he was the threat of Guilherme speaking of the well-made that he did in some place, there is no problem, that is clear understanding for these elections, decided by the President and by the Vice President, he is the trope of the Electoral Court's understanding. So we will stay in this decision, because someone thinks that the left is not going to use the election, it will be a mechanism exclusively used by the right, the right, or rather, once again we have been tired of two heavy and two measures, the moral of course, Gui, and who will assist us. If Bolsonaro knew, he will be punished, if he did not know and did not authorize who will be punished, the PL, the Flávio and his campaign. Well, you know, and then everything that happens ends up taking the Flávio Bolsonaro campaign, so that they can be crushed in a serious situation, now involving, for example, for example, the loss of the President of the Civil War. So when everyone is going to one side, it is dedicating to something exclusively linked to the election, even more in this officialization of the Flávio and Bolsonaro's of the PL, when all the effort, all the dedication, all the effort, could be put only in this, suddenly a part of this team, or at least a large part of this team, will have to dedicate to solve a problem that is not a problem, which is the explanation, in addition to the explanation of the juridical explanation of the jurisprudence that already exists in relation to this, they will have to dedicate, waste a precious time to say, look, all this that we did is inside what is justice in the hands, is inside what is necessary to not configure something illegal, something criminal, the word you want to use. From the beginning in the video, we will highlight the yesterday in all the newspapers. The video was made there for artificial intelligence, from the account that it is a simulation, there is no request for vote, it is an effort to the candidate chosen by the owner there, and Flávio Bolsonaro, everything as a figure, all the specifications, all the characteristics that must be announced, were announced already at the beginning of the video, the problem is exactly at the beginning of your comment, when the left happens and you have seen the old videos of PT, this explanation that you have brilliantly considered is our audience, is already in the tip of the tongue of the moral lesson, or, any other thing, you can solve it, you can put a few things, this was the case, the table, Flávio Dino, all of them had this explanation, if it was the left, how is it, how is it, how is it, how is it, Bolsonaro, then the change of figure, because you would not need to do any kind of controversy that in relation to this video, even though we were talking not important, if there is nothing wrong, let's try to find something wrong, let's try to find, don't take the explanations that we have in relation to the list of the video, they will understand, if it's just the same, because they want to make the right wheel drive, to judge K, to the Flávio campaign, to judge the situation, involving Bolsonaro, to judge K, and so on, they will find something to solve the problem, it was like this, and it has been like this, since Bolsonaro's condemnation, many years ago, in humiliations against Bolsonaro and the hospitals in Brazil, in intimations, a completely disrespected, a deshumanity against Bolsonaro, and then it goes to any other, it doesn't matter if it is the right leader candidate, if it were with the light in any other left, if it were any other political being lying in this way by justice, would have seen our part of all the press, in the meantime, there is also something wrong, and this has been a big problem, the people normalized these attitudes of the STF when we see one side, both by leaving the wall, as much as the STF, the other ministries, involved in corruption scandals that are not, at least on the internet, when I access this traditional press site, I don't see anything more about the master scandal involving these ministries, I don't see anything about the Valko Lumbar, on the road, and then you open the gas, and you meet, that is, we will silence many serious, pertinent, fundamental questions for the development of our republic, and we will leave aside the absurd abuse and persecution, which has been recurrent to the right from the STF, that is what Brazil has done, and the large part of it has also done. Now we have to hide that, beyond anything wrong in this video, in the convention of PL, there is a persecution, a proposal to catch the campaign of the Flavio Bolsonaro. Another 48-hour story, we already have the day in the area, my friend, Lucas, let's take this suitcase, before taking it to the year, we have one print, I think, of the Vianas, and for this topic, just to bring it to illustrate a little more to the year, Morais gave 48 hours to explain if Bolsonaro authorised the video of A, if he authorised it, he can go back to the party network. If not, the authorised the campaign responds by Deep fake, the man is at home, stuck in the judicial system, and even so, the system needs control even more generated by the computer, not enough to call your boss, now wants to call the digital version too, wrong, and if it is not the police, it is the obsession for control. Taiane, a little bit of what we have already talked about here at the beginning of the today's program, we have already warned the content of this, unfortunately, not only in the coffee, but in other programs, from Gazeta, also, the Ani Diaz, the Ani Brinko here, if you are comparing me to Flavio, Flavio Morganston, the old lady for Ani appears, she was already here, but there was a connection problem, good day, you are welcome, good day to Guilherme, good day to Lucas, good day to our audience, I don't know if it's giving my audio, the environment is coming back, right, perfect, I'm going to take my phone that I think is better, so I don't have everything, good day, guys, let's go, this is the sound, it's giving a lot to say, I wanted to try to look at another perspective, if we take, if the link can be put here on my side, what decides the decision of the Alexandre de Morais, I want to analyze a very important detail, which is in relation to, in fact, it was the last one that just passed the decision of Morais, if it's possible, if not, comment like that, but I wanted to go into the juridical aspect of the electoral rule and what specifically says this resolution of the TSE that is based on the decision of Alexandre de Morais, the resolution says that it is prohibited, right, it's that it is classified, it is prohibited to use the image of the A to classify the política campaign, which is already in favor, or against the candidate, with the alteration of the image and the voice through mechanisms of the A, right, so it would be the dipfake, but what is the point that is not being respected during this decision and another thing, everything was extremely calculated in the defense of Bolsonaro, so it was not a risk, even before a comment in the previous one, my brother who I did later, who left the image and I thought, I commented here with you, he said no, it was a risk that the campaign assumed, and then, after reading, studying, more, until the agreement, we had this paper in the last analysis with Dr. Adriano, who is a specialist in electoral law, I understood that it was not a risk, the defense of Bolsonaro, it is not a defense, but the strategic coordination of juridical, it is about a new leadership that is calculating every minimum of the paper, so it may be certain, everything that Bolsonaro has already said, that the Bolsonaro's plane is doing in relation to the juridical part, it is being thought and calculated, thank you, he put himself here precisely the resolution, so he is based on a TSE resolution 2019, which as you see in the first paragraph, pro-Ibi, the use of the A, it is classified as a fake, even had precedents in the past of classification, but what is the bullet of the hat, where the morals are to use this TSE resolution to base the video of Bolsonaro's B. It is that the TSE resolution, it exists to take care of the electoral rules, and that means that during the campaign period, which starts in May, August, in a part of the conversation, it is not a electoral campaign, it is still in a pre-election, the hat was not registered, the convention is a moment that the candidates present themselves to register the candidates, so for that reason, as far as the number is not being divulged, the candidates do not have the bank account, the campaign's CNPJ, each candidate, then they know the CNPJ with this CNPJ, concrete the campaign account, and that is where the electoral rules are being evaluated, then who is the CNPJ electoral for the electoral crimes that come to be commented during the campaign elections, and that is what this TSE resolution says, pro-Ibi, the fake, during the electoral campaigns and not a pre-election period, which is what we are living today, although it is a conversation, although we talk about the candidature, who will be candidated, but it is not a pre-election period, because it is not yet a campaign, there is no way the TSE rules are classified at this moment, so I think that from the first analysis, when we analyze precisely the electoral rules, even if it is saying this, I am not alone, as I already mentioned, I learned a lot from Dr. Adriano, here in the Gazeta do Polo, in the last analysis, the specialist in electoral rights, and also, in the latest analysis, this new strategy of the campaign front of Flavio Bolsonaro, which is the use of the right to be taking care of all the stages, I understood that this was made in a extremely careful way, here the defense of the already Bolsonaro has asked for me, even to visit, and that was calculated also theoretically, that again this video was thought, it was not the risk, they know that they represent the force that can defeat the Lula, so they would not commit this risk, but what I understand is that the strategy is focused now, to leave the tired, that the moral, the other way around, all the limits, and to reinforce all this that has happened a long time ago, at this time of electoral campaign, so yes it can be that it has been to provoke this decision, but this decision is in juridical, as well as several others that the Murais commit, so I imagine Guilherme, which is the strategy of Flavio Bolsonaro, it was used, it was, but it was, according to the legislation, and it was for the Scankarate in the Murais flag, someone who continues to even go, even the projection of the Bolsonaro today is prohibited according to this new decision, and still puts it there, in a rush to say this knew it or if you didn't know, and then the campaign will respond for fake, obviously trying to transform, to reach some illegitimate, illegitimate in this campaign, so that you know, even to get the big effect of turning Flavio Bolsonaro in the regime, in a certain moment, we don't know, he already did it in the past, because he didn't do it now, so that's it Guilherme, another decision that is not being disbanded in law, but that we already expected, the end is the Murais flag. Well, that day's name, unfortunately, is the sad reality of the country, I'll take it to the Saturday too, Flavio Morgan said Saturday, we show here the prince of the Vianna Carlos, I think he basically wrote in the post that we are talking here with you, did the beginning of the program, in your comment is exactly, do not be interested what was done, left to be done in relation to Bolsonaro, when the Murais flag is removed, it is dedicated to find what he wants, what he wants, even if it does not exist for the rest of the society, he will find a way to put Bolsonaro and that is exactly the electoral process, we have the Bolsonaro there, now we will also catch Flavio's campaign, since he is this chosen one, this will continue, because on the other hand, my friend, we have the presence of the republic speaking what we want, we already we are already talking here, but it's worth remembering, threatening to enforce the political adversary, it should be just the political adversary, he repeats this threat and absolutely nothing happens, so if everything can be on one side and nothing can be done on the other, that's my name, my friend, Kassak. Perseguishance, Guillermo Oliveira, and to the end of this, Alexandre Morais can be everything, a touch dictator, someone a partial judge and not technical, but he is not bad, he also reached the conclusion that many Brazilians have already managed to get, which is the simple fact, the main candidate and much possibly maybe the only capable of taking a four-year-old hand of the PT and the civil law law is Flavio, do you already imagine if Flavio wins, he already has two of the paella, for the first time he could have a majority of conservative judges on the STF, and who will be going to take a group of judges, Carmen Lucia, then Alexandre Morais and his panelist, and it will be increasingly isolated, a matter of Flavio could be imposed on senators, because you have the hand of the candidate, you have the government, it's different from you being a position, and then he could negotiate with the central, possibly impeachment of the House, because today the central is against impeachment, because the central is always giving us the government, and today the government is against impeachment, if the government passes the favor, the central that never came to the position will come to the day to the night, of course not, the central will embark on impeachment, it's on the face, and Alexandre Morais knows that, so we have a decision that we already know which is the main foundation of it, I want to bring Flavio to the discussion, good day to Flavio, welcome to the coffee of this quarter and we have a situation involving, so now the minister Alexandre Morais, see, if my memory does not bring me, the light when it was candidate in 2018, press, press, launched the light, and until 45 the second time change, there will be your age in the Urdana, that is, it is like this convention now, you were launched, the Bolsonaro did not Flavio, Flavio was vice, and in the last day of the press, 15 August, the 19 hours, oh, it can't be, I already knew, so it will be Flavio with another vice, it was exactly what PT did, do you think there would be this possibility for Bolsonaro? Of course not, good day Lucas, good day to Guilherme, good day to Ania, the explanation of Anita is very good, there is a lot of things to say after that, but let's analyze it for this prism too, Lucas, not with this content, online in 2018 with Lula Press, what was made in the Pettista campaign, they said, the age is Lula, the photos of the age appeared on the side of Lula, as if Lula was the candidate, and not the age mainly thinking about those more simple people who never heard of Fernando Adad, imagine you got to the 5K in this country and think that someone there knows Fernando Adad, you know, and where he knows, he has a huge rejection, so what did the campaign do? I hid the hand on the board, I remember how we took the bag, it seems that the hand on the board was in that meme of playing video games without being connected to the joystick, while that Adad was going to be flying there in Lula, Lula, Lula, Lula, Lula, until now, at the last moment, they put it as a dingo, look, it's just an sensational idea, as a dingo, as a slogan of the campaign, Lula is Adad, right? Adad is Lula, which is to associate Adad to Lula in a extremely strong way, guys, look, try to say this now, our hands are going away from the wall, which has no law, he has the will of him, has his desire, has his personal impetus, has his silly tips that go there and puts up the law, saying, this is the head, up the law, I'm giving this head, so any impetus, any absurd that I have taken, any bad that I have in this morning, he comes more importantly than the own constitution, to tell you, for example, a part of the area, which is a discussion, even, it is not exactly a pre-connisation of the game, it is still at the moment of discussion, it is the own campaign, a part of the area, this does not make any more sense to me, explain to me, and we can add some political effects of this, that is, the Alexandre Pravariá, as he says, what do I want today? I want to go back, I don't care what he says, I'm going back to prejudicing someone, there is a lot of discussion about the ZIP fake, ZIP fake, what is the problem of ZIP fake? The problem is you try to deceive a person, I'm saying here, for example, that Lula said that the Alexandre de Morais is ugly, the man of the Milan, I make a ZIP fake, and then I say that Lula is talking about this of the Alexandre de Morais and creates a situation there, with the transgender, for Lula, because any person who is a discord in the Alexandre de Morais will have problems with the police, we know that very well, so this is a ZIP fake, now you are a campaign, a campaign, not a campaign, as I explained to you, in an event of a party, you sent a message that was not made by the person, look, who is responsibility? I think I would go a little further than you said about this kind of responsibility being a party, because of the following, any person can make a ZIP fake, or the Bolsonaro, anyone, so a person makes a ZIP fake, or the ZIP fake is a petition, makes a ZIP fake, then ZIP fake, now he will lose the homicidal, you understand the problem, look, if you are responsible for a person who is not responsible, by the act committed, any right from the world, not the right to penal, Brazilian, any civilized right from the world, you know that, responsibility, even if I have used my name, responsibility, responsibility is another person, and worse, in the case, there was no attempt to dig, to get it, to get it, it's just a message, so go there, think, look, what a Bolsonaro would say at this moment, let's make a video here, the same thing, I'm going there, open a artificial intelligence here, dig it, look, I want a message from the Jair Bolsonaro, I want a image from the Jair Bolsonaro, smiling, before his famous Joinha, talking, touch you there, or if there, Bolsonaro 22, then you are punished by the ZIP fake, we are sorry, this here is turning, it's getting harder, it's turning something, it's getting worse, the third one has more maturity than this, more maturity than the SETF, that is, now anything, any excuse, any computer user, now we need to adjust, I'm going to change to KDA, we go to the death mode, there is your silly cutico, there is a silly cutico, adult, you know, and that's what I need, just improve the silly cuticos, the SETF, put the silly cuticos, adults, we improve the idea of ​​this country. Well, and yesterday, even on the issue of these demands of the SETF, Trump has kept the state of emergency in bilateral relations, of the United States with Brazil, involving, of course, this dictatorship of the trade, let's put a print of the North American government, one of the justification, that is, we continue with relations to the ruins with our second partner, the United States of America, let's put on the screen, please, for everyone to see, look there, following politically, a former president, let's put what they say, then, the third, in July 30, 2025, by the executive order, 14,323, I declare a national emergency in relation to Brazil, to face the common and extraordinary, fully-originated, or substantially, out of the United States. The national security is the external policy and the United States economy, constituted by practical and action-driven policies of the Brazilian government, which interfere in the United States economy, violates rights of freedom, expression, of American people. The members of the Brazilian government are also following politically, a president of Brazil, his family and his supporters, which contributes to the release of freedom of the State of the right in Brazil, to intimidation as a political motivation in that country, and to human rights violations. Determined activities like censorship and prison by the Supreme Court of Brazilian, of individuals who exert freedom of expression, as well as the censorship of online content, continue to represent a common and extraordinary threat. For this reason, national emergency, declared in the executive order, there, 30 of July, 2025, which has been completed, will be revoked until July 30, so we are already in this situation that the United States will be more or less two. But let us leave on the screen, because there are several moments of this current order, 14,323, that we can talk about here, Guilherme. We have the commercial issue in relation to the one he criticizes with the United States. There is a relation of freedom and expression, referring to constitutional rights of the United States, referring to the Brazilian Constitution in relation to human rights violations and also political perceptions and freedom of expression. He speaks of the erosion of the democratic state and the right to the State of Brazil's defense, and finally, he reinforces censorship in the networks. I have at least four questions placed by the North American government. We already have this letter deliberating everything that has happened in the Brazilian government. We already have a position of the leader of the Rosada House, Ravier Milé, and we also have, by the way, Israel, a letter condemning the series of actions of the Brazilian government. It is about this that it is worth the friendship today in Brazil, Guilherme. My friend Lukassaba, everything that is happening around is very serious, and we know that these measures and actions of countries have been justified exactly by the Supreme Court of the Federal Court and other institutions here in the country. I believe that these measures are necessary, but very worried with the way the Federal Government will use this in the elections. I understand that so many United States, against other countries and states are right in what they do, I think there must be a response from the censorship to share with the Federal Supreme Court by the attitudes taken by the Alexandre de Morais from other ministers, but always with the concern that the Federal Government brings all of this to the State of the South of the sovereignty. And then we have a electoral discussion that unfortunately has been the great motto, great theme of PT since 2025. In the first episode of the Tarifas, the PT has become a green wall like never before, and simply defended the sovereignty of Brazil. About what the aspect is. The important thing is the United States want to fight with us, want to take us to Tarifas and then Brazil comes with the idea that the fault of all of this is Bolsonaro's family, comes from this narrative, comes from this discourse and takes the time to now and will continue to take these discussions with the United States to the lack of the full of the Brazilian government and to take representatives to debate the Tarifas questions, the commercial questions, the fact of receiving the Tarifas and then trying to get to the GMT or MCE and other organs, without telling the detail that you detail important, which is basically all the content, but the fact of the fact of the marriage for the past four years, of proposal, has been pushed, has destroyed all the years of friendship that had with the United States, with the Chinese and other countries, but especially the United States, in a way to take this plate exactly the issue of us against them. What the left does is the history of man, against woman, against snake, of the company, against the worker, this is the play of the left and the left in the whole world. And they managed to bring the United States to the United States or the rest of the world if possible. In the scale, against Argentina, we realize that there are at least part of the federal government, of some members, not to stick this string, despite the words of Dario Dúrigan and of the very Lula, saying that I did not know the milk when I asked about it. But in the United States, Brazil makes the issue of taking the bottom of all this, of bringing the question of sovereignty and of considering the Bolsonaro family a fault, which obviously is not their relationship with the United States. And Brazil also maintains the discussion and Brazil feeds anything that the United States does against our country at this moment. So, for more than one, I think it's necessary to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have the right to have those right to have that right to have the right to have that right to have the right to have this right to have this straight to have the right to have the issue of the censorship in Brazil. We know very well that the critics are pertinent, both coming from the United States, how many of us we do daily on the STF, but I follow this fear that this has been used in the electoral campaign. It is certainly going to be like it is already being used during the pre-election campaign and the electoral campaign is narrative, as you have put it well, to put everything in our Bolsonaro. But it is very interesting, in fact, we have been observing that it has been a year, a year when this first notification came, the first alert, two United States to Brazil speaking of it. You are seeing a principle that is here in the United States, we take it out. If you don't take the area of ​​you, if you think it's all right, we have a censored profile, stay with a network outside of the air during the entire period of elections, if we are talking about one of the most popular ones in Brazil. If you think it's okay, the newspaper stays outside of the air, they derub the matter and then you just complain about your social media, do what you want, but here in the United States, if you see freedom, the expression of one, is given to the American, it is already a reason for us to intervene. Guilherme, I remember that last year, in the beginning of the year, I was in the United States, which is some months there. And as you know, this escalation of authoritarian censorship of the US, in Brazil, was already gigantic, right? Several and several names had already been censored. And whenever I commented about this with any person who was in shock, how do you leave this in Brazil? No one makes anything, no one can record it. And if it's not normal, I know that it's not there, just intensified. Every time it was more proven, violations of construction, law, basic principles. We also have authorities, Guilherme, I don't know if we're going to talk about it today, but I think it's important to warn that we have a conversation in the last couple of days, and the authorities, in the case of the debaura of the button. This was another point that I also commented on. There's not just a woman, but it's good to bring the debaura as a symbol. There's a woman in Brazil who wrote a sentence repeated by a minister in a state that was condemned by the state government, she's in jail. So, Guilherme, in Brazil, we've already normalized. We don't think it's a absurd, it's the new decision of the election of the people. We don't think it's absurd, so Bolsonaro is unelectable, Bolsonaro can't speak, can't manifest, the moral of this, of each verb, of the Bolsonaro's life, we're normalizing the story of the sapo, that when you play it inside a water, it will be used to form this water, it will be in Brazil, in Brazil, it will be in a long time, and we've tolerated it. And Guilherme, the good thing is that there's a good side, but the important part of it, we reflect on this decision in the United States, is that they are definitely principles that in the United States, they don't see it. And they bought a giant toy with Brazil, they tariffed it, we're in diplomatic conflict, the government didn't do anything, never interviewed, but that's all it shows that we would also need to value our principles and not tolerate any kind of intervention in our freedom. Very well, my dear Ani Diaz, always inviting you to leave the like, comment, share our coffee, it's important to also teach the people's cooking, to promote the whole Gazeta, 90 per month, in the first six months and access to the limited, all our content, it's worth just to value the independent journalism of the Gazeta of the people, we keep reinforcing here, many things that you see here in the Gazeta, not only in the programs, but also in our website, you can't find it in the traditional media, and we do this to the importance of value the journalism independent, and know exactly what's happening in the country, in the world, by the Gazeta of the people, my friend Lucas Saba, besides all this, we have lived in our country, this attention of the crisis between Brazil and the United States, this alert continues to be maintained by the United States against Brazil, we have a more escalating crisis in our country, in this tension, in relation, for example, to the American officials, everything that involves elections in the year of the 26th, this increases this tension even more, but we always leave this point of interrogation, to the people you, Flávio, will also talk about this, of how this can be used in the YouTube campaign, or at least until the YouTube, we have some floor, still on the front, but the left wall is there, fighting the hands exactly for each answer that comes from outside, especially the United States, to treat it as a question of sovereignty, Saba. Well, Guilherme, but I think a lot of you have seen this issue of denying the views to two American and American officials, that is, first of all, Lula makes a speech for the militancy that can turn the market into a ruby, all the Americans, other countries that he makes a question of winning everyone, of the Brazilian, of the Americans, because the defense of democracy, due to legal process, etc., etc., then you invite international observers, then the most Western democracy, commanded by this senior here, to the side of the Republican Donald Trump, and say, the following, okay, you want international observers, great, we are sending two Russian officials, from the State Department, North American, back to this issue of electoral legislation, that already follow other electoral experiences, in vizinhos, of you Brazilian, South American, etc., and also in the European countries, they will follow the election, and in the end, in the day of election, the election, the election, the election, the code of the source, all that. Since it is completely 100% transparent, we are sending these two, then what do the government in Brazil say? Oh no, these two do not send another one. We do not want, you will fight, but wait, you will be invited to a party. I arrive at the party's door, and the security is empty, that in the race, that the PT has to play here, Lula did not come all day, he is the biggest, and so, if our Urna is so ill-based, as they say, why are they canceling views of international observers, the most Western democracy, free? Why? Why is everyone in the week have to come to the Ministry of the STF, Carmelo said that yesterday, Urna has already left the TSE, she does not need to do this defense, if the player, Glem, right, we like the example of football here, if the player who is in my team is a crack, I do not need to see the whole week and defend the public face, his football is just for this, if the urna are so good, so enviable, why is the Ministry of the STF all week have to come to the public and defend? The Ministry of the STF, why did they lower two American North? Because the government in Trump if it were the government of Kamala Harris, or Biden, or Obama, Lula would have released, look at the diplomatic crisis that you cause, the most human in this chapter, the canceling of two views, and you are not talking about James or Prussan, who are the American North Functioners, you are talking about not to democracy in North America, you are talking about not to the White House, to Washington, it is different, now, prepare for a canceling of view in mass, of the United States in relation to our Brazilians, the government officials, the state officials, the ministers, it may be certain that this will come as a way of response, we have another art to show even the norms of the United States censorship, let's put on the screen, look at it, what Carlos Bolsonaro says, is not the right narrative, the North American government has been promoting for more than a year sanctions to Brazil, citing censorship, prisons, freedom of expression and political perception of Bolsonaro, your family and your supporters, then it follows, another paragraph, the government can try to hide the reality, but the world has already realized, when the government is absurd and trans-war and enemies comes to the country, and we have done another art talking now about this crisis, finally, of the canceling of view, of the two American North American departments, look at it, how beautiful democracy is the image, democracy is for them, the government of President Lula has been a crisis with the United States to deny views of the entry into Brazil, to two major American North American departments, who pretended to meet with national authorities and verify the integrity of the Brazilian electoral system, to be a guest, the visit would have, as a finality, interference in the vote of October, how the urn is not viable, it will not be sold all day, how will it be? The new point of the trip between the two countries comes out days after the new tariff is made in post by the White House and that the Brazilian government has signed the World Trade Organization in protest to new provinces, a first reaction to recent episodes by the American part, came in this terça with the extension of national emergency. Flavio, be sure, I at least think who is covering this from the beginning that the White House should retaliate, should give a counter-gope to Brazil with a cancellation of some important views of the Brazilian government's high-quality officials in response to the cancellation of two views of the high-quality government of Donald Trump's officials. Do you know what the biggest problem, Lula? Maybe I don't know if it's the first time or a guest, not to calculate the type of step that would have to do with it. Maybe we have been the owner of the STF, because STF sends the TSE despite the president's decision, now the House of Commons and vice president, are the second. The idea of you not to accept the international auditors and the people who simply will observe the elections from another prison, that is, it's not a prison, I'm leaving it to take place, it's the own democracy, so if you vote in another candidate with the intention to take prison, if you speak, speak, speak, speak, speak, without you, if you judge the prison, if you take the straw from the Pili Lila from Carmen Lucia, the prison, no, they are observers who are used to read with more or less books and more books and tutorials like Brazil, they know, cataloging, that's very good. What's the big problem here? Why is this a diplomatic crisis? Absolutely more serious than any other that we have already had. If people are aware of what is playing here, they would really be there in panic at this moment. It's the following. This canceling here is not possible, I'll cancel the views here. It happens because of these seasons, these are the issues, the countries that are still out in the communication between the United States, between the government of the United States. But there's a serious problem here. But it's not a problem. Maybe it's just a matter of the United States, a canceling, a return view. The problem is the following. You don't cancel it, I see, by the way, a dispute, a discussion, a joke that existed between the government, you know, look, you talk about me, you talk about you, etc. And you cancel views, auditors, of the 20s, of people who are verifying their country. It's free. It can be that the American government reacts in a way, we'll say, simply, that is, we're going to cancel the views here. We're going to cancel another view from the Minister, the Minister of the government in Lula, that can't be found in the United States. The STF solved, it seems that just, you know, canceling, the moment where he is in the United States, we're in the United States every three weeks suddenly disappear, there's no more event in the United States. All the bad things, you were talking about so much in the business, you're not going to Harvard, you're going to the Russian, you liked so much, you're going to university, you're going to the Harvard, you're going to Miami, you're going to the Russian, you have a lot of interesting things in Miami, because you're not going to Miami, you know, explain why you're going to the Russian, maybe I know, but in the end, everyone knows, but you can't say in public, now, what's the big problem? If you have, if you want this situation, the Brazilian government creates this situation, and if the United States react in a way adequate, that's not canceling the view, it's saying, oh, okay, so I can't just edit the lessons of Brazil, so I'll declare you in return, I don't recognize the lessons of Brazil. If you don't know, they're free. You're my teacher's lesson, it's this correct, it's this correct, what the United States should do. If I were the American government, I would say, okay, okay, if I can't edit, why should I consider that this lesson is valid? No, it's not valid. Brazil turned a dictatorship and ready to say, this will happen, I'm saying that this will happen, no, but you, you're confused in the middle of the world of poverty. If the United States wants to, they can. You've got all the justification now for the United States to say, look, I don't have the title, it's a lesson, so I don't consider that this lesson was valid and not consider that it was valid, look what happened to Venezuela, look what happens with Cuba, we've been saying for a long time, every 20 years, in Brazil, I can become a Venezuela, Brazil, I can become a communist country, a dictatorial, etc. People don't feel that, how it's explained, it's also that question from the background of the panel. Let's normalize everything, we don't feel, we don't have a great shock in the digital world that just happened, if you can't, to need what day of fact the dictatorship of Brazil started. Now, this, which was made by the government of Brazil, is a book of bourgeois, of the unaccreditable, you don't respond to a diplomatic crisis, saying, so you can't audit my elections, what Brazil has to hide from these elections? What does the TSE have to hide from the United States? Why if I have a book, if I have a country with the most beautiful and wonderful elections in the world, with a technology in view, with a blockchain in the electronic world, we don't have a blockchain, so you don't know what the blockchain is, it's a research, you'll see, why Bitcoin is practically violent, nobody managed to hack Bitcoin, because there are several servers, all cryptographers, if you can't invade one, you can invade all the same time, to get all the cryptography at the same time, for a extremely decentralized system, that's why nobody steals Bitcoin, if you can't hack Bitcoin, and do something like that. The electronic world has a blockchain, so you don't need it, you don't need it, because the TSE itself says that there is a violent one, and he doesn't leave the US coming there, and he sees, what do I have to hide? I think if the US now answer in MUDs, as they say, in MUDs of Donald Trump, they can answer a very violent answer to Brazil, and that there is something that everything in Brazil is always decided by the STF, maybe the STF now has the power of decision, no one wants to say this crisis, then there is a lot of water to roll, these people did not realize the size of the problem. Guilherme Oliveira seems to me that Oulu does proposal, or he doesn't know, but I think he does proposal. From the moment that the boss is here, says something, he mixes with the value of the money, he can directly influence the decisions of the copom to increase the rise of the jury, has a series of things, he can't talk with all the respect, as if he had in a boutique in Sant Andrea, with the syndicate friends, it's not a question like this, I'm talking about all this to contextualize, because we have a video, Guilherme Oliveira will call, now talking, I'm from Lula, another free attack to the US, putting in risk on more than two centuries, Guilherme Oliveira. Well, I'm going to say, unfortunately, they continue to feed, feeding all this debate with the United States, and what do you say? These provocations don't even stop being motivated to be made, they continue to do exactly to have a kind of response and continue to take this narrative until, well, unfortunately, this reading we do in reality, let's watch this video where Lula, once again, provokes the United States, just for my friend Lenshin. And I doubt that there is some danger that makes people do it, to be far, to be able to do it, to be able to do anything, go to New York, go to New York, to be able to do it, to be able to do it, to be able to do it, to be able to do it, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, ¡Tед otra kettle! ¡A구�the districts! And I do not delete this video. Cこれ, quroyla- You're fired! For you to do it It's just a story about Lula's experience in their dances in the country. It would be a wave that was held in our Brazil. Unfortunately, you know that the situation is not like that. And they follow, doing comparisons, with London, the United States, who knows how to confuse. Guilherme, one more day, I put Guilherme here for us, the Lula, you who come to the city, to sit with Gazeta, you can put Guilherme with me. I know that the person who is not seeing Lula, but Guilherme does this because we have to get to Lula. We have to come and pray for him. And Guilherme, if I was seeing you on the Gazeta street, one of the Lula, which now I don't want to remember who is the author, but later we can try, another Lula in the Gazeta, which was the name of the following. Sus, just use the Siri. And this is the reflection of all the elite political of Brazil. Just use the best hospitals, but you can be sure that his children are in a private health plan, that medical care is the first line, but they have the right to speak about the sources, to speak about public health, to say that it is what works when you use the Sus, which depends on the Sus, you know that it is not a wonderful thing, you know that there is a million problems. But that's it Guilherme, at this moment, several times of the campaign, they are all in real-time, with journalists, with media training, training each word, training the narrative, seeing what to give to the sport, what to give to the sport, and everything is measured and calculated. They have a negative point, that is all that is the Lula, that can't control the language anymore, that ends up dropping what you think without going through the Siri's writing, but most of the things, it's all calculated, because we are receiving very well to pass the whole day thinking about this campaign, to think about the whole day, thinking about how to lie more and more about the citizen, and how to advance this narrative, false, Guilherme. And that's what the previous talk about, with what our GST says, Ah, this story of the United States, as well as we have already said several times, Guilherme reinforced this today, is the disease in the marketing strategy of the President, Lula. They put the United States as an enemy, they deny a view of the international observer, why? To say that the United States want to intervene in our elections, and want to get involved, they are the enemies, we have to focus on the rest of the world and we have to focus on the Chinese, we have to focus on the whole world, at least in the United States and in the Bolsonaro, because these are the enemies. And the sad thing is that we see that, unfortunately, this story is cold. So that's why it's important, Guilherme does this service here, to put more times, the image of Lula, so we don't forget who he is. You already know who he is, and our function is to talk about who he is, in fact, is for the rest of Brazil, so we don't leave this subject, go up the ramp one more time. Four mandates of Lula, ask for the end of Brazil, to put the card card, and we'll go there, we'll get there, and we'll bring this green card from the Bolsonaro's Eduardo Bolsonaro because there's no conditions. Guilherme, this is my dear Anidias, let's talk a lot, even on the elections of 2016, there's a new research coming out, we'll go ahead, let's go to our merchant, we're ready. The most important thing is the responsibility and future vision. The most important thing is the responsibility and the vision of the future. Guilherme, do you part of the consultation with the client? What's your function within the company? Guilherme, as a part of the consultation of the company, and my main activity is to contribute to the strategic vision of the organization and that the decisions are the best possible. That's what I say when the subject is confidence, high-tall, it's worth it. Here, there are options. Very well, Merchand, we have to treat the situation electoral, with a lot of attention, we're talking about the video of the Bolsonaro's conversation, we'll talk about the decision of the moon's mark in relation to this situation, but also have the PT going back to the electoral prosecutor to talk about the participation of his conversation in the Bolsonaro's conversation. Do you remember the words in the election of Morais? The word also mentioned when Lula was in Argentina, he could visit Cristina Kisna, he got to ex-B, also a card talking about Cristina Livre on the other hand, he also had another person with Lula Livre card, when Lula was in the room here in Curitiba, causing all that that was in the capital in the year in 2018-2019. We're a video and we're going to talk about the most important things in Argentina that we have important things to signal the first thing is that everyone from Hollywood, from Spain, or anywhere in the world speaks about Argentina as a racist country clearly unknown in our history, in our culture, and also all the Argentine who visited all the foreigners who visited our land and the Venezuelan who has been suffering the Bolivarian government and have come to Argentina and always describe that here we have I think a way to treat the foreigner I hope a model to follow I consider that we are good politicians and that's why it's surprising this idea that we are racist and also it's missing that these people come to Argentina and feel that we are Argentinians There is an hypothesis that the left in a way this campaign to break with this idea that the Argentine model manages to get people out of poverty manages to get people out of the indigencia manages to lower the inflation and generates production and export and others It's part of the game If we take it to the case with Brazil it's clear that there have always insults of both sides I think there are ideological differences there are political differences but at least the Argentina has never taken these diplomats with which the Argentina will continue in this circle there are differences that there are clearly between the two it's a leader of the movement that tries to take forward to market ideas Bolsonaro in Brazil are friends and colleagues in this idea Lula confronts to this idea and I think the differences are clear and we are part of a ideological and political question but we don't think that this will impact diplomatic part of the two countries or at least of the Argentinian side it's not the intention that this affects commercial relations between two brothers who and in fact they have commercial partners mainly something that can be seen in the numbers in the existence of the market and in the history of both countries Hi, my friends my name is Cristian I'm in China I'm calling a bastion let's say there's no situation evolving to VIA's and Lula at least that was declared and we wait on the other hand also our like P.T., Lula, Dario Dúriga and others there may also reduce the tone at least if they cal the time they say it's good that the silence impairs a little for this fact these political discussions ideologically that will always happen and do part of the democratic game if it's that there's still democracy in our country that will happen but want commercial relations don't stay in the streets right? Zegler, I have this speech until we talk about what he came to say precisely in this campaign before Argentina as you saw the endorsed by Hollywood artists which happened quite in the world calling the racists Argentinians and according to what the pink house and what the only way to get the ticket is to suffer an ancient campaign very strongly during the World Cup for the image of the country and where Lula and P.T. in this story why we are talking about this in the café because when they came to Brazil you followed a good part of this controversy we saw journalists saying that Bassura is a lixo in the translation of Bassura Calva which was like the Alexandre de Morais in his speech so he came to Brazil to say but he also also about this campaign before Argentina when the interview was in Brazil he said 25% of the resources to finance this campaign before Argentina was in Brazil it was what he said in the radio it was not yet I say Guilherme because now I am doing this research to understand what was the difference in Brazil especially in Argentina in the Relation the campaign of Serju Mass in 2023 so this is the talk of the Milay not only in the Relation but in the Relation of Argentina which is getting a lot in Argentina that they are avalados because in the end they saw the World Cup and they were in a completely full-time image who was in the football almost managed to get a World Cup with a 3-year-old image but I will leave to Lukas Saba and Guilherme to talk about this part of football and we will focus on the politics what is important to reinforce and Guilherme is going to be the theme of my column that will be published today in the US when this diplomatic belief that in Brazil and Argentina will be the beginning with Milay Vindo talking about the country, calling the Minister of the Basura Calva calling the other of the socialist will be this really the beginning of this diplomatic crisis or as some journalists obviously other vehicles will be the problem is the Milay being the end of the world of course you know very well Lula and the history of the US and you know that this story is much more ancient than simply a crazy that Milay is not a crazy I say this with all the respect that I admire more of Milay's work but when a crazy comes to Brazil and says that he wants it's not the beginning of a diplomatic crisis this begins before Milay is elected in the campaign well before with all the civilization cryptocurrency wave and that project are specifically in disp � pumps Brazilian shines in the wave of exits of organizations played Monitabit, do you know that Mankinhe, you are mainly in São Paulo, so you can see the vote of you once again, so that Brazil influences the decision that the FMI will release more money for a Argentine bank in the West, for the election because Argentina was burned after 16 years of socialist government. And then it goes further and further, so Lula also decided to intervene in the electoral marketing in politics, Lula who had just been elected in Brazil in 2022, what did he do? Let's replicate the strategy, I'll send my mark team to Argentina to work for the Sardin Mass, they are brilliant, they sold a lie, they were expensive in Brazil, so they can do the same in Argentina. And so they did, they entered with the same strategy, the strategy of the fear, they, for you to have an idea, they did a marketing piece in which a child came to school with a gun, to show that the mille was a crazy crazy guy who left the kids using guns in Argentina, of course it is a lie, and you know this strategy, it is the same strategy, it is the method of Lula to replicate his own method in Argentina. And go to the Gilaerme, he spoke in national network, he had a open, asking the vote for the Sardin Mass, the ministries also supported him, he received the Sardin Mass in the Brazilian company, he said that the mille would be the worst of the Latin America in the last 40 years, and that it is even worse than Bolsonaro, and not for him, that's all before the mille's election. And then when the mille's election he does all the revolutions that promised, with this pro-market discourse that the portavost repeated here, we heard it, for freedom, and brings a result of the effective for Argentina, Lula does not make any effort to be approached by the mille to try to deal with commercial strategies, or commercial partners, but when the mille comes to declare support for the rival, the occupation is the mille. When the mille calls for a basura-carva morage, the occupation is the mille. So Gilaerme is more than the same, more a hypocrisy there, Lula is tired for you, repeat it for yourself too, for you to spread it, because this message doesn't fit. The mille is crazy, but it's a guy who is doing everything that can face this socialist system and be fooled in your country. It is reference, whether it's a crazy man, he plays music, that rock, the most heavy man, I remember the name of rock, the rock rev metal, he sings rev metal, he says that he consults with his dogs, he has some trips, yes, he's crazy, but he is crazy who is getting the system to be. So, it's our respect, our applause, and we have to understand that the crisis between Brazil and Argentina has started a long time before the mille if it wants to be president of Argentina. Very well, my dear Anidias, Levan, so, for Luca Saba and for Flávio Morren, this is an issue. That's all Saba. We have the PT asking for this investment under the presence of the mille in the convention of the PL, that is, also another burpurinho who is in the secret, in this game, even political campaigns, has already asked the video of the A we mentioned. The PT will try to put in the justice everything that could be known very well, that on the other hand, she is at least has shown, has been on the last years, you know? And, Levan, I'll keep imagining the leaders of other nations, see the situation that happens here in Brazil. We are not just for that. For this story, for it. Many times we talk with the reason the justice in the country is slow. Yes, but there is a fault for the part of the political class. Our, the Brazilian has the desire to judicialize everything, absolutely everything in all areas, including politics, justice, the PT is just to purify the participation of the Milay in the convention of the party. It will purify what? Tell me. The guy came, has a political preference, the party, made a speech, entered the plane and went away. It will investigate what? Where is the crime? Then you see, there is people there of the PCC, being dirty, because the guy, the group of combat, the group of current combat is the first organized by São Paulo, asked the preventive prison between 90 days. In the time of the press conference, the justice is considered a Bascob, which I'm wanting to say is, we have a lot of important things to talk about in this country. What problem? Leave the supporters of the Lula of other countries, come to disembark in Brazil and do what I can for him. As the Milay did to the Flavio, you judicialize this? The political time that is, has more than ten processes, in the Gaveta of STF, and so on, waiting to write. And worse, I'm not talking about polarization, the example I'm sitting here, is not a person in the Lula, nor Bolsonaro. This, for example, is a former political MDB, which he even has the son in politics, too. And fall, no one joins, so he wants to say, we're worried about these things, judicializing a lot of things, and the processes that really matter. Then the federal police comes, I don't have a contingent to investigate the NSS, Lulinho, the clear franchise, is using the corporation's good part to continue the Silveira, which went into a tribune like this, and there, it can be said that he wants, because he's blinded by the constitution, and it was arrested, following the woman who shouted for Lula in the street, Lula Ladrão, the woman is being persecuted, it's this person who the federal police wants to know. And then, there's no contingent enough to investigate what's needed in this country. Flávio, another one of these times, PT, PV, and PCDB asked to make a general electoral inquiry to investigate what's going on. Oh, why? I was in Brazil, I wanted to tell you that, why? I can't repeat the word I always put in the end, why? What's the difficulty of PT? What's the existence of people who question? Why do people breathe? Why do people talk? The PGR now will investigate if people, if there's a lady, I don't know, everything here now comes North Korea. I think it should have a moral program in North Korea taking the health of Brazil, because it's impressive how our justice is breaking, the law, the ridiculousness. It's impossible to try to do a sketch of a wall in the respect of Brazil, because we're inferior, a wall will always be inferior. Reality is an impressive way. Now, why did I come to Brazil? Why did I come here? See how things are, you know? Look, my name is a government of it, freedom, advance. I thought you'd advance here to Brazil. This is the danger to PGR, this is the danger to STF, this is the danger to PT. Someone, say, look, we're the books, we can unlock the point A, that's the point B. There's also a term called the South, which facilitates a lot of South America's countries. Some countries have this freedom of unlockable. The Brazilian economy is also dependent on a lot of Argentina economy, so that's why I came here to ask myself, what's the difficulty? Do you have any problem with people having freedom, going, talking, breathing, existing, having a clean mind of them? Because I know what's the problem of the Brazilian Milay. When we talk with people in Europe, the United States, journalists, international observers, etc. People say, I'm from Brazil, I'm from South America, and I say, you Milay. So, there are other questions in the US. What was the president of Brazil? Is it a flight? It's a flight? Our flight? Nobody remembers the existence of the flight. Look at the people outside, they're starting to talk more. From Alexandre de Morais, too. I'm here from Lula, nobody is there for Lula, so this is the biggest problem of the Milay. But look, this is not the only diplomatic crisis that happened between Brazil and Argentina. Do you know what happened, too? The Coral Fundation, she said, is revoking, canceling, everything that she does there by Argentina, saying that now Argentina is for its own risk, for the account of this Cisania, with Milay. I was exited, what is the tail of the Coral Fundation, because I always remember this name, but I never remember, let's say, the existence, what I discovered, look, the Coral Fundation, that she has seven, in Guarulhos, I'll read it for you, because it's a vegetable business. It's a esoteric fund, Brazilian, in the last year, in 1931, known for having hired some Brazilian organs, right? Interving mystically in time to not catch up the event's realization as Rock in Rio and the coronation of the King Carlos III. The institution was created by Angelus Critoni, who died in 2002, in 104 years, the writer Paulo Cuelo was the vice president of the Fundation of 2004 and 2006, that is, now we have a foundation that makes the dance of the river to prevent global warming in a Cisania with Argentina. Milay, look, soon, you could be the president of the whole Latin America, see? We've seen each other so the morning we continue here fighting for freedom. Thank you, Flávio. Thank you, hug. Guilherme Oliveira, we also have dance of commentaries around there. You know that, let's talk with Andy Dias here. We were told to thank the president of the year, remembering all our audience that today has the column of the year in the town's Gazeta, so obviously tomorrow, we'll be here, Andy will talk about the column. Tomorrow, you'll be here, right? Look, no. I won't be here, Guilherme. I propose that I knew that you were already traveling, but of course, we'll be bringing here the column of the year, and we'll also listen to it. But you already have a great trip to you, Andy. Everything is well and you bring important materials here, to Gazeta, not only to the coffee, but to all the day, Andy. I can leave it. Thank you, Guilherme. I'm filming my column, also with the audience. The lead is going to be about this climate crisis in Brazil and Argentina. And I'm going today already in the Guarulhos airport to go to Nepal, but on the second day I'm going to have a coffee with Gazeta. Exactly, from Nepal. You know, it's going to be Guilherme, the coffee with Gazeta there, in Nepal. What? It's going to be almost with Gazeta. It's going to be about six in the afternoon. For me, but I'm going to be here talking to you, bringing updates and talking about Brazilian politics, right? And the impacts that everything will happen today to the second party. Very well, my dear Andy. Thank you very much. The last trip to Andy. Always with us. There is a long Andy and the morning we will bring you to debate. Everything she wrote. My friend, everyone knows our audience. We're turning the comments while this is going to be a legendary show with the comments here at the coffee. We're going to go. So, I'm just recording here, because I see that there is rationality moved to a certain dogma. A fanatism. That the person does not accept the real allies. Or does not accept the fact that it would contrary your way of seeing the world. Then there will not learn anything. It will not grow. We have to be there, we have to be there. There are the ideas. I want to say here to you that the applause are not so productive as the critic. Because the critic does not think. And the applause can even win, thinking that we are right. And we will continue in the EU. Well, I wanted to talk about another subject. A subject I already said that is from the war to the war. There in Paraguay we call the war Guassu. Guassu is big. The big war against Paraguay. Paraguay is harassed. And he mentioned in a speech that we have to defend because Paraguay invaded the Macogross, invaded Uruguay, invaded Argentina. I forgot to say that he invaded Uruguay and in Uruguay. But that provoked Paraguay's anger. Because he always also said that in the end of the war when the coup the commander saw a French and my God, it was a killing. It was unnecessary. Certainly, Caxies wouldn't do that. And this is Paraguay's and at this moment Paraguay is fighting people against the people who went into the war and said that they were attacking this sentence. It is because as long as rzecz große the U.S. accusations that the following here in Rio de Janeiro, and they want to come back. Vice President Paraguay mentioned this now as the consequence of the talk of Luda, disastrous in the political external, as it is being the political external in Brazil today. Disastrozi, the victim, the Supreme, responding directly to the decaleration of Milets on the Alexandre Morais and not in the Maratí. The Supreme should only speak in the high, but there is still a lot of talk outside of the high, that the Supreme Court's history directly incurs the American companies like the Trump media. So, it is the rum of the Brazilian political evil committed in all sectors and no one wants to disagree. The Supreme Court is the president, the Supreme Court is the president. Let's make it wrong, because I know what it is. So Paraguay is a great brother that we have here. It is a commercial partner, industrial producer of energy in it, and Poo. The part of it is sobbing and he says, for Brazil, he could say, I don't see it anymore for Brazil, I can come to Argentina. So, I think we deserve it. It must be a political external with more respect, but today we are seeing the presidents who are verbally offended. It is Lula, with Trump, with Lula. The Minister of the Senate, the Minister of the Senate, who is a mayor of the President of the Republic, calls me a clown. I am hearing things that I have never heard in my life, at that time, it is political, Brazilian. I am already a black man, Alexandre Garcia. Grande de Alexandre Garcia, our commentator, colonista, also from the people's newspaper, always with us, that here in the coffee with the second newspaper, the sixth party, my friends, we already have Paulo Brighay here in the comments of the coffee. I will make my friend's coffee, to treat us a matter here, you know. The street, himself, Ronaldo Cahado, defending the reform in the STF, and criticizing the Minister's indication by friendship. Ronaldo Cahado, you already brought some comments here, and leaving with the decorating the Minister there in the State of Goiás, he was from questions and fled, he was angry, from questions related to the parties he has frequented, also from the PMs of the STF, it is the same, he is doing criticism now that you didn't happen, you know. Do you know something that is important to us to look at? Who are the governors who say they are candidates? Zema, Cahado, they indicate to the court of the State, which is the same thing with the STF, but a little bit different, the level does not give the union, but it is normal. Is that just it? He indicated someone from the court of the State of his career. This is the first question to be made. This is a point, another point, and it seems to be the unanimous between the candidates, the Renaissance, Cahado, Zema, Flávio, who else has it? This is the Lula, which thinks this is normal, that the STF, as the popular saying is going down, is playing the end of the ball, of course, took your main opponent, Deleição, who would not think that in the place of Lula, it is not the same. So now, on the contrary, it is an important issue, which needs a reform in the STF, which needs to have a technical criteria for education, etc. The question is to talk about this in August, with the election in October, where he was in 2019 when he was open to the end of the world of fake news, which persecuted the political opponents of the left, in the election of 22, 24, and this is the fourth election, where he was, because it is easy, you know, yesterday I was reflecting on this question of how much the silence of these governors impulsioned the demand for the STF, because before, it was just Bolsonaro, screaming, you know, that scene that Bolsonaro had, even as deputated, that image that he viralized, that he was driving on the camera, the camera is just him, there is more or less that, he ended up a fight against the STF, just, just, the party was going into this fight, after a long time, and look, it was shot by the political party, imagine the Zeme, the guy who did not come to Bolsonaro, who fell into the political party a lot before Bolsonaro, so it means it did not help anything, but the problem is when you do not help, you end up contributing to the other side to create this monster, and then we have all this that happened thanks to the silence, because I am sure, as soon as Bolsonaro was President, if Claudio Castro, Jorge Emelo, Tarsízio, Zema, fall, the own banés, the federal street, everyone who says right, center, right, all who says, until the center, the governor of the fat fat fat fat fat, had a fight against the STF, asking the STF to be inside the constitution, inside of his square, we are not here, in 2026 speaking of this, now let a guy just speak of the little one, the STF was going to force, and the other, the STF has a very important ally, who is left, who Bolsonaro had there, besides his deputies and senators, of his electoral block, but no one else, now imagine 27 governors, 7, 8, 10, signing a manifest against the STF, going to Brazil, asking a meeting with President of the Supreme Court, will we be in this today? I don't know, it's hard to do any kind of ideology, but that the tone would have been raised, and possibly there would be some recall, or some part, and I think so, now, they didn't do anything, now they're coming to the election, they're going to say now, they're very beautiful, and then, and then they're going to say, pass the election, fell, it wasn't a single turn, there, 4 of October, Fech Azul, in the single turn, Lule Flavio, great, from 4th of October, 10th, the moralist sent to the Nobel Prize in the Battle of the New Year, you think the fall will say some sentence about that? honestly, for everything you accompanied two governors, no, he never said it, he never said it, so this is the question, which is my book, this is the problem, silence, not even the good ones, but the silence of many, he sent the STF for that, that they are today. Very well, my friend Lukasaba, I agree, and who will talk about that subject, and all the others in the friend Lukasaba, is Paulo Briegh, who is already with us here, Briegh, is it very well seen with the coffee with the gas, is it good day, Briegh, is it all right? Good day, Glam, good day, Lukas, good day, our dear audience of the coffee, everything is right. Everything is right, my thanks to God, I hope I also tell you, now with the fall, I don't know if things are very right, Briegh, because it's the following, Lukas came talking about what the fall said and left to say during this pre-campaign, now the official form campaign, and we have talked about the last days, about the officialization of the fall, where he brought the bizarre comparisons, saying that Flávio would be a big brother, and he, a guy of the wrong, and when the situation is close, he, Flávio, calls the father, that is to say, talking about situations, where he could very well use the time, for him to talk, to have critics, to the audience, talking about the question of the public safety, of the management of Lukas in the last four years, but he decided to opt to talk about Flávio's evil, and about the STF, same thing, it depends on all the reform in the federal pre-campaign, but during this last mandate, he made decorations to the ministries of the Supreme Court, saying, who is the one who fell for more than there is no third person, as you have repeated here, Briegh, I think it's more than clear, that this third person lost some peace, fell, he didn't show, at least he didn't show what he saw. So this is the despair of the Nánico candidate. The Nánico candidate, that candidate who is not of a digit, the elections, these candidates, which are several, are despairing. They all are despairing, trying to get out of the campaign. And then they need to do what? Create facts, or factoids. Indeed, sometimes some... some chavata, some... phrase of effect, some... some... if you grab a cause, that can take away from the relevance. It's very difficult. And... they... are failing miserably. All of them, all the Nánicos candidates, are failing miserably in their attempt to get out of the campaign. I say this, not all of them say this, not none. I also... I remember the elections of 1989. Do you remember? It's a very young thing. But I remember perfectly the elections of 1989. There were 20 candidates. Even the fall, the fall was candidate. At the time, one of the candidates, and participants of debates, was when he appeared in the national stage. And... In that election, there were several competitive candidates. There was the Lula, the Collor, which ended up winning some elections, which was almost tied with Lula in the first turn. The Covas, a Luffy, the Orelian Chaves, the Lices Gbarenes, Roberto Freire and the Crayado. Oh, the Fimfe of Migos was also in the election. There were many candidates, who really had a dispute, after many years, in the president's seat, Brazil had a... an... an event. An event filled with emotions. Now, the quad is totally different. 37 years later, the quad is totally different. We have... an election... polarized. Lula... or... Flare... If you... Nulo, or if you had, you would be voting... Nulo, if you were voting... the current president. So, this is the question that is put. And the Crayado is trying to... to get some theme. This theme of... the SETF for the Crayado is... very complicated. Let's say to say the minimum. Because, see, the Crayado never said what... what do we need to do in relation to SETF today? What would be the priority of the senators today? Before everything that happened, the impeachment of the minister, Alexandre de Morais. The impeachment of Morais should be the priority of the federal Senate. And what is the position of Crayado in relation to the impeachment of Morais? See well, a lot on the contrary. I even read an interview that was there on the three of the presidential candidates. At the time, the Crayado was the rat. And... they were at the three. And the president of the Crayado is the Cassab. And I remember the answers of the Crayado making a kind of malabarism to say, look, see well, when they asked directly to him if the minister Alexandre de Morais had to suffer in impeachment. So, he invented the verbal pirouettes like this. But... But... scandalous, verbal pirouettes more flexible to try to justify the fact that he doesn't want to speak about the issue. The impeachment of Morais is not an issue for the Crayado. It's easy to say that you need to change, to see the reform as a suffering. Now, how many relations with the Crayado suffering? Because when he decorated the communist, the Flavio Dino, the Crayado, who was a defender of the private property of the Libre Mercado, was a candidate because he decorated the communist Flavio Dino, the friend of Lula. Because he was the party of the Jumar Mendes, as the Flavio Morgans have you guys remember? What was he doing in the party of Jumar Mendes? With fraternizing with the members of the PT-STF what was he doing there? He guided the respondent. He said, it's a tentative day of release and relevance. The other day, the Crayado was a podcast and he said it was forbidden to talk about the subject of that subject of the Picadinha. What does that subject mean? I can't talk about it now, because if you don't know the Crayado, you can't talk about the subject of the Picadinha. So, you can't talk about the Crayado. It's forbidden to talk about this subject in the American Congress, the American Senado, Antony Fault, who was the Lord of the Pandemia, the great authority of the United States, during the pandemic, is responding to these questions of the pandemic. I was briefly discussing the subject, the subject is being discussed freely in the United States. I think you can't talk about this subject. I understand what it is forbidden to talk about this subject. What does that mean? These are very, very, I would say pathetic, pathetic, and in these magnetic candidates are getting into trying to get out of the relevance. Very well, my friend Paulo Brigier, my friend Lucas Sa, for you an subject there, which is of a lot of importance also, which has a relation with the federal Senado. Let's also take to Paulo Brigier this subject, which is important, and I say, my friend, only the possibility of the strength line, you know, it's the strength line being a candidate for the Senado for São Paulo, who knows, the strength line of this dispute, because the question is also of the starting pressure. I don't know, imagine, the strength line, which is one day of this, was in the political context, at least, in the eyes of the press. And then, I came to the question of the Dossimetria, which is São Paulo, which is to say, the situation is sad, right? I remember seeing you running from the bottom of my state, look, it's not easy, to take the secret of the public security and the federal government and put the strength line only two questions. Who guaranteed the legend of the government was the PEP's Ciro Nogueira, who was the last with the lawyer who said that he didn't know the lawyer, the conversations were going on and he came back behind it, saying that he knew it, but he didn't have any wrongness. I didn't trust the Ciro Nogueira. If he was Guilherme de Rite, he didn't trust me either. That's a point. Another point. It's a test. He did it completely different. One of the PEP, another of the solidarity, different parties, everything completely different and to pray. The strength line is the responsible, the director of the Dossimetria, he is responsible for interinging the PEL of the Nistia. If this person didn't go straight to the house and has to convert 20 years of caden 10 to the strength line. To Benizem or to the left side. He created a narrative of Guilherme that, oh no, the Rite is the exception of the extensive aguardian studies and there is no entry in the Pervifery of São Paulo the strength line etc. Let's put here we have the research of the Senado to give us a look at the numbers in relation to that because a matter has to do with another about this matter. And we can see how the Deptado Guilherme the Rite has been. Well, we don't have the Senado. So let's do it. Let's put the government of São Paulo back because the Gazeta Public was the Senado while we are taking this issue. Look, in the spontaneous research 74% or that is, nobody speaks the name of the person and then you have to choose without saying nobody. Look, he is just a man. Who do you vote? No name. 74% is decisive. 17% was in the Tarsíso 7% in Adage and no 0 in the quim or 0 in the white 2% and the general research more than 1650 people interviewed. Marge in Diego is 2% Niveau de Confiança 95 and the 23rd to 27 Julio Taí, the Registro in the TSE here from São Paulo. We also have simulations of this matter. Look, before that, now the Senado is talking about Tarsíso, the jump to 41 Adage 26 also very polarised and the other candidates are practically inside Marge in Diego pointing in 0 to 5. So, Veralúcio has 3 PSTU, the Mashed of PCB 1 Vivian Mendes 1 of the white one will not be now a question involving debates here in São Paulo because you do not know if we have only 2, Tarsíso or Adage or if the other candidates will also be called. There is a question of representativity in the Senado and also how these other candidates are pointing in the research. Both PSTU and PSTU have no representativity in the research. Let's see now another scenario here of second turn. Tarsíso, the 48 Adage 32. So, very far from Marge in Diego. We are talking about 16% percent to more current governor, white one will not be back 11 in Decisus 9. Good Gilermo Oliveira, the fish fish Senado. And then we will put to illustrate this bridge because different from the government that I just showed Senado has a very nebuloso scenario. We have a very small area in front of Marge in Diego. The salis are very far from the beach. So, the bridge that seems to be simple to the speak of the flag of the flag of the flag of the flag of the flag of the Senado is much more complex. The number of the numbers, the numbers for Tarsíso and the Tarsíso campaign. And the name of the flag of the Sampalo was exactly for the space for the moon. The first part of the workers, in a way, some of the data will pass much of this percentage, even by the facts. Or by the things that left to do, while the minister is doing it, even here, the fact that the minister of education was a pessimist, even, but taking it to you, my friend Paulo Brigueia, I think the numbers are a little bit of what we already imagined in relation to the Tarsíso campaign. And the data is the space there for the moon, but the Tarsíso will be there. A great speaker, which is the Sampalo flag of the Sun. We bring this reading to you previously, my friend Brigueia, the leadership of Simon and Teve Timari in the target, and the possibility of who knows, the power line, is the hell in the Earth, my friend. Usually, it is the last choice that the Eleitor does. So, I know that the scare is very much, right? Even if the marina is leading the researches of Sampalo. But they are more known names. And, by the fact of the state of the Ministry of the moon, the marina is known many years. And the most important thing is that the president, even if it was also the president, then, this also explains the percentage of the doubts. Now, let me talk about something here. You have already combined with the history of the Sun, that it will exist, the balance of the president of the party. You know, the balance of the exit, you know, the balance of the exit that the caciks party do, and sometimes when we go up the name of the power line to see what it is going to be. It is the balance of the exit. Now, the Sun will open up the exit that the elite will see the number of research that the elite has a competitive candidate extremely competitive. And he has the support of this leader with the campaign for the state of São Paulo, which is the current governor of the CISO. And he has the support of the presidential Bolsonaro. So, someone already heard the speech about this. It seems that it was already heard the speech, and look just how he responded. If you want to know, he is giving up. He said, you have to go. I am tired of some materials that came out today. A newspaper has given the possibility of the candidate of the Senate and another candidate to replace me. How can this happen? Mainly now, I was already officialized in the last week's convention. With the presence and the support of the governor Tarsízo, with the presence of the Bolsonaro. From the first research to today, I am the candidate of the right, which appears with the highest percent. I want to be saying, and he said that he is in the first research of the veritá, which was the institute, second, which more certainly he will this, my son, the man will be here to vote for the Paulinho in the left Brazilian. He has now the method of invading the sarcophagus to take those who were absolutely disappeared. It is a place that is the candidate of the right. It is also a place that appears suddenly. The Paulinho in the left is the João Kim Barbosa. They are recurring to the sarcophagus. It is not a prejudice. It is a candidate young. You compare with the Amin, for example, candidate of the Brazilian. Here, which has relevance. So it is a prejudice question. It is the sarcophagus of the irrelevances of these figures and irrelevances politically as Paulinho in the left of the force as the net, now it is responsible for the school of the faquin. You are remembered that the faquin was and the Alvaro Diaz then the senator made a campaign to make the faquin at that time and the result of this faquin was a guy who was a cepi and these people who come from the sarcophagus are returning because the left is not removed. The case in the Silva's house is also that it seems that they are in hibernation during many times, in the elections they come back they appear again. And it is the case of Paulinho of the force. Change a leader that was one of the best secretaries of the story of São Paulo in a young dynamic like Guilherme de Hit by Paulinho of the force the guy who interrogated the hatred of the black people continues to destroy the wall of the force of the project that transformed after 12 meters and that today is destroyed by the wall of the force of the force of the force of the force of the force of the force of the force For us, Paul brigué the lift and other hospital iniano amine inov appreciate Maile Leon Brown to do with you here in the Gasea. So, tomorrow. Calte, we talked about this race the scene in our state. We will put the search on the screen so that the company can see the scene of the quest genius. We already put all the methodology here, as well as the triple-nile superior, electoral, look there, put up to the marshal, which the justice has already reinforced, it is in eligible, but look, remembering that they are two waves. We have Marina Silva from the network with 14 Simone Tabet 11, the marshal who should not be candidated to the third with 9, the derit with 7, and Dredo Prado with 5 current representative of the legislative assembly, Paulinho da Força with 4, Salis with 4, Rob Sontuma from the republicans, Cassique Antigo with 3, José Anibal, also there, Ninho Tucano, PSDB, only one white in the world, or even if they are going to go out and vote for 20% in need, 21, a lot of things. We have a second scenario, still talking about the scene here in São Paulo. Look, there in the name of some men, on Marina with 14, Tabet 11, Marsal with 9, Derrit with 8, Dredo Prado 5, Salis 5, Paulinho da Força 4, Rob Sontuma 3, Branco Nulo, will not vote 20 in decision 21. Caut, we talked a little bit about you getting here. I think the certainty that we have a almost guaranteed government relief of the target, the environment is much more turbulent in the question of the scene. The scene is almost everyone inside a neighborhood, of course we always have a look at the research, have interests that contrasts behind a series of things, but we have two waves. Today the three scenes for São Paulo are two are left. I wanted to know what do you think of this race for São Paulo? Well, two are left and not are left in São Paulo, one is from the Acre and the other from the south, the senator and the minister, Simone Tabet and also the Marina Silva. None of the two would be selected, neither the predium of their state of origin, why? Because everyone knows and knows, and therefore they would never vote in the two. That's why they are played by the Paracadans in São Paulo, where in capital there is a hard-to-use, left or extreme left, which is the Uspia, Turna, Di Pinheiros, Davila Madalena, the left of caviar, the radicati cheques that end up choosing this type of candidates. But it's a minority, because from June to the south, the south is a fortress with the conservative, São Paulo is a state of right and has already demonstrated this in several other elections. Taking these balões of enslavements, which we are seeing these needs, frankly, that they are a little ridiculous, because they put the Marçal Pablo, which is technically incantated, and it can't be an illegitimate. Of course. And he never manifested his interest to the Senate, it's obvious that they entrusted a name there to put a turbulence in, to divide the vote of the right here, in fact, much more compact than it seems in this research. Paulinho da Força, but yes, I even asked friends about this, but Paulinho da Força, who was the guy who passed the report of the initial case, the report of the initial, he said, the initial thesis, oh, no, I forgot, I don't know, he passed the report at the end of the month, about that. And Paulinho da Força, for doing some commission here in São Paulo, it would be submerged by several, and he put Paulinho da Força as a little candidate, frankly, it's something that, in the reality of the king, the guy who did this, but he wanted to pay for a trial of this, right? So it's obvious that we have to base on what? We gave them the last elections, how did the elections go? But there are still more in 18, where we chose two senators. We had the majority, right? I said, a majority, and the Maragabrilis that were elected, but at least each with 9, 10 million votes. So we already have 40 million, 44 million Paulistas, but at least half voted for the right. Those people, who voted in a majority, who voted in Maragabrilis, who was from the press, D.B., or so, the right, authorized against the PT, will not vote in the Silva Marina, will not vote in Simone Tabet, who voted in a majority, will not vote in who passes the hand in the head of the bandit, who says that the bandit is with a little girl who will buy a beer when the king will be the next one, who voted in someone against the PT, will not vote in a Communist of Lula, which, even left a difficult disaster in Brazil with against the French publics. So these votes will continue in the elections of 2022, they will be the astronaut Marco Spontes, who also named for the performance, for the performance, but it was the right, and they will vote also vote in the right in this election. Now, the only thing here is to leave a little perplexion is if these votes will be divided in three, that is, the defeat, the salus and the adra of the Prado, and eventually this could guarantee a vague for the left, but the two of the left, the São Paulo, if there is no pro-question in America, because the left will also have to divide their votes in the two candidates, right? Three, but there will be the third candidate of the left-wingist country too. So, a lot of difficult scenario, but with certainty, neither Pablo Marçal and neither Paulinho da Força will be candidates in this election, because they, yes, or they can't, by law, or if they want to be elected to any charge even better. He is remembering, Cautie King 2018, so the date of the Senate, the majority of the PSL, one of the main supporters of the Bolsonaro's President, has more than nine million votes, was a commander here of a battalion of the military police in the state of São Paulo, that is, this vote there, the public security, as Cautie said, who, no longer has the health in São Paulo, due to much that goes to the left. In relation to Pablo Marçal, also, he is also careful, he is affiliated to Brazil's union. We already have the director here, manifesting himself, the union of Brazil, launching his candidates, and he didn't put Pablo Marçal himself as a candidate to the Senate, as you said. I think the pesquisa is having a little bit of a hand to divide the votes of the right. So, let's do it like this. I'll take Gilem Elivera, because he also has a question to Cautie, we also have Paulo Brighet, more pesquisas to show Gilem Elivera. Okay, my friend Lucas Saba, big hug for Carlos. Cautie, I'll ask you, Cautie, exactly what we brought to the program, my friend Saba, regarding the Alexandre de Morais, that I was entering in this situation, the video made by A, already going to sound, giving a sentence of 48 hours to explain, how do you imagine that it will be here until the end of the elections, the participation, especially of Morais in all that will turn the family of Bolsonaro, Cautie. They are wanting to enter the image of Bolsonaro, Pai, because they know that where Bolsonaro was, even with a paper card, he will join multidões, he will join millions of votes, and people will remember the fundamental role Bolsonaro had, and there is still today for the Brazilian right to take the Brazilian right of the esconderijo, in Vergonhian, where he was, by decades, and show that Brazil is like a country that does not tolerate crime, that is less state in the economy, that is less taxes, that wants to take the bureaucracy of the president's candor, what to expect? So Bolsonaro had a fundamental role, a historical role, fundamental, in the last decade, to resist a right here, it will always exist in Brazil, but it was always very unfair, and today is the largest charismatic leader of the Brazilian political, and that's why he was the leader of Morais, he is dying of fear, even a projection of artificial intelligence during a part of the liberal convention. So I imagine that if the part of the liberal, if the Flavio Bolsonaro, show, continue to show the images of Jair Bolsonaro, the videos of him, of his speech in the past, his higher moments, surely, will conquer more and will leave or leave Morais, and good part of the hysterical Supreme, and each time, but eating and going, it will spread, it will show this terror that many people in Brazil still have the figure of the president of Jair Bolsonaro. Carlos Bondinha, here Paulo Briguei, colonist of Gazeta, you economist, right? So I wanted to ask you about the economy, how do you see the perspectives of Brazilian economy? We just finished setting up Simone Tébete, who was the Minister of Planejamento, and therefore responsible for the status. We had a lot of disastrous in the government of Lula. Which is the perspective of Brazilian economy for 2022 and then the next of the Earth-Razada of the Lula 3 government. Thank you, Paulo, for the question. I will use the phrase of a Lula supporter, that is, the Fraga Armenia, who in 22 supported the Lula election, is the central bank agent, and who supported the Lula in 22 election. The scenario is catastrophic, it is seen in his and some days ago for being called the magazine. I will make my words of the Fraga Armenia to not seem much of a part, right? The catastrophic scenario. We have a public debate here, it was almost 13 percent of 2023 until today, and it continues to go on, and 100 percent of the GDP, Brazil is the second country in the G20, with the worst fiscal scenario, only lost for China, we have an inflation, and then the coup is also the debate, which is constantly above the Teto, also being stored the Teto of the META, that is, the government can monitor the national of which the debate is part of, along with the central bank agent, and start making it. With the National Monetary Council, it was decided a META of inflation, the fiscal policy of the government took this constant of this matter, if they wanted to respect the limits they themselves gave up. So, the public's life was out of control, the inflation was out of control, and the fiscal budget, which is a piece of fiction, was never respected, in fact, because the government, with the outside of the capital, hundreds of billions of gas reais, authorized by the SETF to not have the time to have the fiscal responsibility. We have the Brazilian population, super-individed, 80% of the Brazilian people are divided and half of this is in a template. We have a pandemic of bets that the government authorized and allowed that to lag, because that happened. In the beginning of the government, Lula, we have a industrial production that suffers from each trimester, companies that are fleeing Paraguay in search of a fiscal relief, a tributary charge that does not stop increasing the government, Lula, every three days, it became imposterous, and basically Brazil is losing competitiveness each time, but even for Argentinians, Brazil is cheap. We have a positive invasion of these times, of Argentinians, because even for them Brazil is cheap. So, this is the scenario we have. So, we are seeing in many steps in the direction of a fiscal crisis, come slow, basically we are a scenario like 2013, 2014, of a country where the economy was even more or less with numbers, even more positive, but the catastrophe came in 15 and 16. So, this is the scenario of today, and we are seeing the national treasure with serious problems to refinance public life, put paper on the market, because the market does not want to buy public life in these conditions, which are higher sales, because I'm afraid of a possible collapse or of an inflation in Brazil, it starts to be strong in the financial market. So, the scenario of land-wrestling and this monitabit has one of the main responsibilities of this disaster, it is the one that commanded IBGE, in the hand of Massoposti, but because, depending on the minister, it is the one that sent us to the state that has a record of the race, to get the race, which are monopolists, because in the Amazon era, the billions of people are burned, so this is the size of the government, and the incompetence of the Turkish government, and now the impression that Paulo wanted to choose. Good luck, I think the politicians are so much like this. Let's see together, then together with Brigue, Gilermo Oliveira and our audience we showed a research of the annual quest, now we have the Atlas in Tel, talking about the presidency of the Republic, two scenarios of stimulants, potential second turn, look at the Atlas in Tel, so we have more than 5,000 interviewed a margin of just one percentage, 25% level of confidence, 22-27. Let's go. This is the first Lula with a margin of advantage in relation to the second 9%, Lula has almost 45, against almost 36 of the Flavio, then we have Renaissance, with almost 8%, with a margin of 3, Z, with 2,8, Samara Martins from the 2,1, Augusto Curi 1.6, Cabo da Siolo 0,1, Hertz, Dia's of the 0,1 and cost the payment of the 0,0, of my son cost 0, white in the 0,6, does not know 1%. We have a second scenario, stimulated in which the person speaks, we have Lula with 47,4, Flavio Bolsonaro 37, Renaissance with almost 8,6,3.3, Z, there with practically 3, white in the 1,2, does not know 0,4. Now the second turn, which is possibly going to be drawing, second research institute, Lula, with 49,2, followed by Flavio, 42,9, white, in the 1,2, almost 8%. We have, in relation to research, independent of the institute that we can see two phenomena. In an event the second turn, between Lula and Flavio is that he ended up adding everything, but the number of people who do not know is very low. It's about 1%, that is, I think the Brazilian is not going to be able to see his choice. This is a scenario that I wanted you to analyze. The second is, you think provable, Renaissance of the mission, a young person who has never despotted some, who does not have a academic formation. Stay in the front of two governors, one of them who ruled the second is, the Renaissance is a phenomenon of social networks. The Renaissance speaks for the networks. I think the Brazilian interview, as I said, the Zema, the Cajado and the Renaissance is, with certainty, the best communicator of the three. The Renaissance speaks for the young public, speaks quickly, with the cuts, great cuts, learned from the Marçal School and I have the result of this. Now, the candidates with the best chance to govern the Brazil are obviously Romeo Zema, who showed this and the Minas Gerais, a disaster that was not paid, the salaries were two public officials and put the food in the trillions of prosperity, as it was the first term, in our second mandate. Or Romeo Zema showed that the political and political also knows articulate, knows to join the effort. For example, I could privatize the state of Minas Gerais, the water of Minas Gerais even has no majority in the state's most selective休ities. So, with certainty, Zema would be the best gesture for Brazil. The Cajado also showed the great work of the investors, but they can not speak as well as renunciations, which is a common NATO communicator and someone who knows very well the social networks. Now, just a point, I wanted to go back to the research. I don't know why, because we get the first research, that is, the spontaneous one. And I even wanted to ask to produce a show that is stimulated. The worst thing is that our second turn has the light gaining the flash and the flash is 48. Who votes in renunciations? Who votes in Cajado? Who votes in Zema? The first turn will not vote in the second turn. There is no such thing. So, the most probable scenario is that we have a first turn of the right to divide. The right to divide the light as it happened in Chile. So, it seems strange to me that if we have a first turn like this, in the second the flash does not get the votes of the others. The day still loses light. It is frankly terrible. And besides that, just to finish the workshop, let's get the research of 2022. Lula was with 10, 15 points in October 2022 with 0.0 distance. That is, 1 million and 800,000 votes of difference to more. So, he had one, he had one of the votes of Lula from July to October. Today Lula is practically impacted with the flash. If this scenario, if Lula continues to get to the October, then we have a chance to win even the first turn. So, there is still a lot of the flash in front of the debates. Lula has 81 years risk of a Bidenization of Lula. So, to get to win in the debates is very high and it will impact the electoral system. But, with certainty, someone who came and said that someone will vote on the wall, or on the Renaissance. In the first turn, in the second turn, let's move on to Guilherme Oliveira. He has more questions for you. Okay, I know. The court asked exactly about this right division. We have seen and commented here in the coffee. The respect of some declarations of Ronald Kayado, also from Rumeus Ema. You talked about the Renaissance also that speaks to the networks and has criticized the Bolsonaro. In the candidacy of the candidacy, he said that the flash would be a branch of the border and a field of land. We commented about this here about the possibilities that Kayado had, for example, to avoid questions, different ages, Lula and leave the flash a little on the side. You consider these normal critics, this part of the game, how can you analyze the second turn, the win of these candidates in support of the flash, the normal union, a game of politics, how can you solve this issue? Well, Ema, it's an interesting point because the candidacy of Zema and Kayado in some cases were even stimulated by the president of Bolsonaro. Zema, we have to remember that his candidacy was incentivized by Bolsonaro, that said, if we give him a date, we will have more chances, more options in the cardate and then the second turn everyone together, as the natural oxygen. So, yes, we have, we have a very similar precedent of a recent election in Chile, where the right also has been presented with several candidates, and then the second turn everyone converged, in the most voted, which is, the caste that was the end of the president of the republic. So, a scenario of Chile is very likely here in Brazil. Now, the problem is, during the debates, and during the campaign, you cannot lose your hand. You cannot attack, you cannot attack, you cannot try to win a vote with low votes, you cannot try to get the difficulties of the other candidate. For example, the case of the banquemaster with Flavio Bolsonaro, which, even if it is a process, it is just a political problem at the moment, at least, it is an investigation, it is not a condemnation, if it is a process, it is a matter to be purified. Some candidates were pressed to criticize Flavio trying to obtain a vote of the votes of Flavio. I did not get it right, Flavio continued to keep after a temporary war of the preferences, then returned to the market before. This attempt gave a lot of trouble. Disgustocked the candidates who attacked Flavio with a vote of the right. All of them are ready to be put in the second turn and be able to win this election. But they cannot attack, in a way, even a little bit like a little little bit, to try to get more votes than the other, because this will end by degusting the election that would be very willing to name only in the second turn and eventually govern Brazil together to take the power of the election. So, they will have maturity until the end to keep this political elegance and also to keep compacts the point of view electoral. Caldit, I think you are very optimistic. I think it will be a magnificent film from Daniel Vorcaro who financed the Bolsonaro film. The first to attack Flavio there was the Zema. I think it could take a political capital. The fall, if we take a look at a pesquisable in the theater of the fall, the last 10 publications of a half-dose attacking Flavio. I don't know if these campaigns of Flavio will be voted in the Lula. So, our actor is flavio. So, I have to say that the first debate in TV will be on the 16th of the day. When the campaign begins, I say the audience is sending it here on the chat. They can take me. The fall will ask the people who have been in the middle of the stage and they will ask Flavio about his involvement in his cover car. I'm sure. Because the Renaissance is a franco-attirator. He will fight everyone. Lula knows he is against all of them. He knows that. So, there would be a union in the end. What did he say? I can't call Paulo Brigui. He said, I want to call him Brigui. He also said, Lula said, about the video of Artificial Intelligence. He said, he will be placed in the Lula Convention by showing his support to Flavio Bolsonaro. So, Brigui, we will enter into that issue. Alexandre de Morais, creating confusion. The Nunes Marx, who is still interrogation, despite this saying, defending the issue of the use of A. I remember Brigui from a dinner before Gilmar Palusa that the Gummota had dinner with Alexandre de Morais, he had dinner with him and he had dinner with him to try to cool the issue of the Artificial Intelligence. All of this to reach where Brigui will be and that confusion that was arranged for the PL, that we know that there was nothing illegal or anything illegal. Will it be that they will create a cut to this all then it is the Nigma in Nunes Marx. What will be the behavior of all Casio in Nunes Marx before this situation? It is the Nigma we do not know what he will decide he already talked with this whole thing. So, it is this big doubt what is the Casio that he will decide and more. If he decides by freedom or by use then it will be that Gilmar Mendes who sends to the same STF will agree with this? Will Gilmar Mendes and Alexandre de Morais pass on the decisions of the president of the TSE that we have in this process. The Jai Bolsonaro was transformed by Alexandre de Morais in the man who can't exist. Jai Bolsonaro is prohibited from exist. He can't talk to anyone and can't change messages. He can't participate in social media. He can't support the son from the president. He can't talk publicly he is prohibited from exist. He is prohibited from exist by Alexandre de Morais. He is also prohibited from exist virtually. If you create a late Bolsonaro and you can talk about this. This is not real life. This is a late we run the risk of being persecuted by Alexandre de Morais. This question Morais gave 48 hours to Jai Bolsonaro to respond if he already Bolsonaro said that yes he authorized he runs the risk of becoming unlawful then it is the Bolsonaro who supposedly committed a crime You know the Morais win, the left-wing enemies of the Morais is always like this always like this So, the Bolsonaro is prohibited from exist this is the question The other question is if the Marxist-Marchs will allow this to happen during the election If this will continue during the election if Morais and Jumar Menes are doing what really desire with the electoral process This is the big question For me, it is an enigma. I don't know if the Marxist-Marchs will have courage to face this It is really an enigma My friend Guilherme I have a gift for you to take it to São Paulo this year we have a nice, fast long-term勢 A large corporation was born in the Union It grew up with work and consolidated as a reference to the Brazilian industrial algorithm It has been 62 years of history, consolidated consolidation and development Today with more than 17,000 and more than 27,000 employees with a signed wallet is the singular cooperative that is more in Brazil present in Paraná, Amat, Grasso do Sul, Santa Catarina and the great Sun and Paraguay there is a cooperative activist and next the production begins on the field by the small producers a complete agriculture, industry, logistics, commercialization and distribution this movement is a great opportunity and is worth the quality for all Brazil and for more than 103 countries the art also highlights the third largest producer of the country a sustainable growth by values that follow this is the art a cooperative that works every day to fulfill your proposal to improve the life of people Many welcome my friends let's go to the Saba Saba, look the PT is here where at least those who are part of the high-scalando who arrive at the TSE with the presence of the Nunes Marx I don't know if it's just a good or a good news for the PT in Brazil because if the PT is recognized it means that before things were ugly even we know that but how do you analyze exactly this defense of Nunes Marx to trust that this will be in the opinion that will all be able to happen even in this sense to change the opinion of Nunes Marx Well, Guillermo Levera we talked about this in the beginning of the program the title of our card I have the title here in the store to emphasize that Casino Nunes Marx today I think the death in the federal Supreme Court when the decisions fall from Flávio Dino I think nobody has much surprise that will happen now Casio is our biggest incognito and preside in the Electoral Superior Justice Electoral maybe in our most important election since 1988 The question that is we have he still did not decide he is the editor of this question of Bolsonaro if he uses a Yad, anyone who is already here who does not believe that another one if you have a video of Bolsonaro supporting Flávio saying that he created Pics, that he helped in the work of the Rios San Francisco of the Transpossession this has no problem that is said Alexandre Morais did not ask the 48 hours to defend the lawyer Dr. Céu Solvilar who signed the defense of the president of Bolsonaro to manifest in relation to this because we have put the decision of the Minister of Alexandre Morais, he said or Bolsonaro and therefore he infringed the Flávio himself without authorization this is a Pific words of the Minister of Relator Alexandre Morais that is, now we are in zone 50 and then there is a problem Well, interesting this is a Morais he does not criticise the use of Yad, the problem of him that is he would have authorized the use of his image, that is, the problem of Morais where he can attack is eventually if Bolsonaro had authorized this lawyer's image to completely disclose decisions that I exol absurdly do not exol the rest of the world. So, it is not forbidden to use in Brazil in elections it is forbidden to do in a negative way, but this is another department. Nobody says no one prohibits and even at the moment only in the new simple images made by Avatar two people, Bolsonaro simple images that appeared by the artificial intelligence left a lot of people to raise millions of people to the zurnas, against the Lula and therefore they are trying to call to Avatar Bolsonaro. They already enter a live president Bolsonaro. They are in the midst of absurd and legal restrictions for the figure of Bolsonaro. Very different from what happened with Lula, who found everyone in the form of Brazil, found the press, that is, the first lady who was in the president when Lula was arrested but in the case of Bolsonaro, he is being put alive. A deshuman and degrading true torture beyond a democratic act, because they impede such a powerful leader with Bolsonaro can manifest, can talk with his people because the law does not impede, if it is being criticized, is trying to apologize, saying, Bolsonaro is legal, because he could not have authorized. Again, it is frankly ridiculous, and all and just try this deep fear that a part of the establishment in Brazil has the figure of the president of Bolsonaro. It is only the old videos at the time, it did not be artificial intelligence, but even so, old videos were not veridics videos at that time of Lula, and he kept on the floor until the 45th and the 5th floor. It is like in this part of the article that the president of Ravier Milé was released as the head of the leader of the 15th of August, until the 19th, to the limite change. And then put the table as head of the chapter of someone from the same point of view. It was exactly the same as the time with the Fernandadade and Manuela Davila as the vice. We have the president of the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Defence that asks 48 hours. We only have 48 hours of the day. If there is no authorization of the Bolsonaro to use his image in you, to declare political declarations laterals, besides constituting this judicial respect by Flavio Bolsonaro and by the PL, such a conduct can be denied by the fake, practically expressly given by the individual. The image, the voice, the manifestation of determined by the candidate, from the political cause, without its express authorization. It can be returned here. So, he passes above the president of the Electoral Justice, Casino Nismarx, because if the Minister says it is not fake, and the Ministry of Morais says it is fake, in this story, a difference of jurisprudence. And to make it clear, we don't know what this decision will be, because he doesn't put the Flavio in risk and the Jair. He put the PL in the Borlucati. I remember that Morais gave a change from the liberal party. 22 million reais, and that's the point, because we will have a conflict today, but will the most evident Morais, and Casino Nismarx know the other ministers of the Super-Oreitoral of the other, because Morais wanted to be the owner of the Justice of Brazil. He liked this role, the most powerful man in Brazil, who sent him to take and shoot, he didn't give the president a chance to shoot, or the Daniel Siver or another Surtus in the size of the mother, he sent the search for the press inside the cabinet in the Congress national. He got it, he got it. Now he lost this power, because he is not president of the TSE. Very less, he makes a part of the TSE, which is part of the Prime Minister's Supreme Minister of Parliament. So, he left the TSE, but the TSE didn't leave me. This is behind me. So, he continued to give the elections in the election, but, obviously, it's absurd this waiting. Casino and other ministers of the TSE explain clearly to the Prime Minister of Boraes, who sends the elections in Brazil, and who is the last one, the last one, the Prime Minister, is the TSE himself. So he has a minimum of dignity, a and that demonstrate the municipal minister, the decisions he can take on the elections of the 2016 are illegitimate because it is the super-ectoral tribunal that has the last to decide on electoral questions. Now, we will have a conflict with the moral and if, let's see if Marx will have a little better performance than he had during, for example, the play of Jair Bolsonaro or the involved in the eight of January because, during the excesses, the absurdity, the abuse of good part of the Supreme Court, we did not see the voice of Casio in the Marx in a way that is in those occasions. And we have a press also because of this omission, who knows with this president, the TSE, Casio in the Marx can give a new, a return to his biography that is not brilliant by the courage. And remembering that, beyond all that he remembered that the moral has already made and continued to do, he has interest in the figures, the interest of the end of the world, open from 2019, follows 100% active and he will use this to, let's say, like that, heat the regime's opposition. It is worth mentioning in the minoritaries elections of 2024, simply he removed the air to the theater, the largest social media of the world for 40 days, in that final sprint of the campaign. Just that, let's see what he will ask this year. Gui, I will go to you to round this other issues with Paulo Brighay. Very well, my friend Lukassava, let's bring Paulo Brighay, it is very animatical to talk about the decision of the moral Alexandre de Morais, this intromission of the moral Alexandre de Morais in all this action. I will tell a low-end to you that Brighay is a fan of the merchant, he is with many soldiers of ancient merchants. Here at home, here at Brighay, we will bring you back these perolas here, commercial, but my friend, tell me. I like all the merchants, I like to get in relation to what. We need the merchants, you need, right, our patrocinadores is a very cool thing, I like a lot. You are very ugly. I want to know something on the internet, and I wanted to ask you, Glemi, and our guest, Carlos Cauti, because I know that Carlos is an intelligent guy, and he is not artificial intelligence, you have natural intelligence. So, it helps me, Carlos, I received it on the internet, I wanted you to comment on it, I received this image here on the internet. I'm giving it a try. Oops What's wrong? I came right first for you guys. Brother, you are copying! It's a note, it's a settlement, so the question I have for Carlos Calde is that this settlement was made by artificial intelligence or not, and I say something, would there be any problem to put this settlement there in social networks, or even in the electoral campaign, I think there would be any problem, because now without a brick, in some months, the Zema, the date of his party, Zema, he made a brick on the internet, put the money in the books, you get in some marionettes, representing the ministers of the Supremo, and the Marmendes, I think it's in the hands of the Marmendes, I think, and Morais is the executor, the Marmendes says that that was a deep fake, what is the definition of a deep fake, you know, I think we lost the Paulo, but I think I understood the question, well, Paulo, let's go there, Zema, he made a brick with a bunch of bread, the brick was in touch, I don't know if even the production can show us, to remember this brick, what kind of animated design, and the Gilmar had a low profile, he said that he was a deep fake, deep fake for our public understanding, when you get an image of a human being, like me, I'm talking about here, and you alter the labels of that person and the talk of that person, so that it seems that she, being a meaty human, said something she never said, that is a deep fake, you are manipulating an image, and putting it in the mouth of a person, words she never promised, taking people to believe in wrong things, false things, and that is screaming, in Brazil, in several places in the world, but when the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Supreme, the person, he was going to be more wise than the Prime Minister, he said that a brick with a bunch of bread, it is a deep fake, then, frankly, we are in a psychiatric problem, there is a clinical question, because it is not possible that this person, I think it is believed that the Brazilian population considers this interpretation as legitimate, as logical, as ridiculous, that's all. Of course, Jumar felt, Jumar felt the criticism, because she is veridica, because we have a certain amount of intolerable, that makes it very clear that there are scenes of vergonious corruption, like this 129 million reais, that the Prime Minister was receiving, saw his wife, for the bread and butter, Jumar's case with CBF, with several other entities, where he put his brother, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, friends, etc. We have several other cases, the topoli, in the case of Taya Yahu, the topoli, he was the associate of the Banco Master, he sold to the funders of the Banco Master, the participation in him, in Taya Yahu, he omitted this, and hid it, even when he became the editor of the Master's case, in a illegal way, illegal, absurd way, he put his entire seat in the case of the Banco Master, in December, in the past, almost forced the central bank to revert the decision of liquidating the Banco Master, to constring the central bank, inventing a career, in the last day of the year, of December 30, that no one in Brazil, but no one in Brazil, he invented a career of the Banco Master, of the Vorcairo de Onado, and the central bank of the other, within the Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme Court, he ridiculous, that's all, never seen in the history of the Republic, and then he discovered that he had made the Banco Master's business. These people should have a minimum of dignity and withdrawing the Supreme Court of the Federal, running to save not your image that is already completely disgusting, but the image of the Supreme thinks in the institution, thinks in the Republic, thinks in the future of such an important tribunal as a Supreme that, due to the causes of these mansions, that they represent and continue representing, is also becoming a maculada image. So these ministers, if they had a minimum of dignity, they would have already withdrawn from the Supreme Court, running and would never appear in front of the cameras or in the Republic of Brazil. What did the Jumar do? He just put the Zema in the investigation, but he said he was going to be a fake lawyer, and began to give a series of interviews. Jumar never showed up in the media to try to apologize and attack the Zema in a homophobic way, that there is nothing to see, showing that he is also, besides that, he is a big caffer. So that's what demonstrates the great nervousism in the Supreme Court, because he became a big businessman and not a court Supreme of a country as important as Brazil. And just mentioning two questions to your talk, I remember that the day of the Stoffel, the friend of my father, at the moment, some really recognized him. After the metropolis newspaper in a brilliant investigative material and he was asked to the hotel which everyone called the Stoffel and the boss and has that image, appearing in the powerful boss, in his point of the garden, with whom he was below the arm, receiving several banks, then he recognized that his brothers, their family, had a sociality with Daniel Vorcaro, but then, the same story of the Sir Nogeira. The first Sir Nogeira was the justification of Sir Nogeira that there were 11,000 Sirus registered at the Institute of Brazilian Geographic, the Artistic and BGE. Then, he came up with a new conversation after he said, the Sir Nogeira senator, and the reporter asks, well, now there are 11,000 Sirus. He says, no, everything is fine, I am, but a wrong-doffin. In the same case, Stoffel's leader, that is, the first, is the person who doesn't know, who has no similarity, but after he discovers and comes to the garden, the press, then he says, well, really, you were right, but you didn't do anything wrong. He wants to say, he's covered with civility of this people, and the court said, this matter is already a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative, a negative negative is above the heads. He apologizes in exchange. If we don't have thus much rights, we will be right here, because you are right. And I believe that theю mart game and the celebration shorts. Then, you will be right there. Thank you very much, I want to not forget, from earlier approximately the past iteration. But this joke and the story Here's the little thing for Paulo Brigha, my friend. You're a joy to have you here. You know, you stay watching Brigha here. This would be a gift. It's a figure-ass, my friend. It's a gift that sends every absurd figure here, impressive. But look, we all live in the same intelligence and competence. Brigha, thank you for the presence. And you come back. I know you're always in the audience. But we want to know what day we'll tell you here. You know, I'll take a little bit. I think I'll be back. I'll be in the audience. But I'll be back here. I think it's just in this week that comes. It's just in the fourth year that I'll be here. But I'll participate in the adiantando. I'll participate in the Gazeta Gora. Now in the fifth morning. I'll participate in the Gazeta Gora. And it'll be very good. I'll participate in the other programs here in the Gazeta. The last news, the 100 Rhodesians and the Gazeta Gora. It's very important. I know that today is a very important day for our Catholicism. It's the day of the Holy Brothers. Marta Maria Azaro. They were the friends of Jesus. They were a very important day for us. Very well, my friend Paulo Brigui, who is in the front of the Gazeta Gora. And the Gazeta Gora is also in the back. It's worth the sign of the Gazeta Gora. Besides all the reasons we're present to you, you have access to the Gazeta Gora. That's right. Today, my colonel will be on the electoral system. That subject that cannot be commented. You know, that subject. So today has a very important colonel. I talked to Dr. Felipe Jimenez, who is a student of the electoral system. Today, the colonel is really lost. That's why you are watching us now. You have to watch the Gazeta Gora. A hug from Jeremy. Today is the day of the Brigui, Sonia, with Carmen Lucicopilili. Great job, Valia. Valia, the Brigui. Lucassaba, my friend. Always my gratitude. Tomorrow we are back. Carlos Cauti, also. Great journalist. We are together tomorrow. My friend, the manager is always here. Good, Jeremy Levera. Valia, Paulo Brigui. Cauti, your first time in the Gazeta? Do you know us? First time here, Alvino Iacores. Thank you very much, Luis Puyco-Vinte. Thank you all for the audience and see you next time. Imagine it will come back very often. I love the job of Cauti. Let's see the results of the elections. I ask you to follow the Gazeta, the people of the world. Super promotion, real and 90 per month. In the first six months, the Gazeta Total access to the Gazeta, the people.com.br, bar or fair. Or then the camera camera camera for this one. And also our club of members here on YouTube. The dependent journalism is worth to stay here. There is no real peak of the federal government and no law and law. We count your support to be part of our independent journalism. The club of members. Now you are with the last news and the last 13 minutes. Then come Maria Nabraga with Frederik Unker, Guilherme Fyusa. This one you will also be talking about. The last 16 more 30 minutes. Carla Lima with Paulo Pousonof in the Gazeta. And captain of our night. We have Marcos Tos and the last news. The coffee with the Gazeta of the people will come back tomorrow, from 7 o'clock in the morning. Thank you for the courage of the day. Stay with God and until there. Hello everyone, welcome to the last news and Gazeta of the people. The Minister Alexandre de Morais of the STF continues to implacable in the physicalization of the commitment of the only of the cable company, Deborah Rodrigues dos Santos, Deborah do Baton. It was the 14th year of the State of Justice by the name of the manor, in January of 2003, Deborah is in the domicile regime, but neither of that was forgotten by Morais. In one of the last statements of the case, the defense asked the commission of 280 days of Penna for study, reading and activities, resourceful, practiced by Deborah, in addition to the revision of the Penna with the base in the 12-metry law approved by the National Congress. Morais denied the two requests and yet exited the President of the Tremembert, to tell details about the content of the convent, the public, and the conclusive of the courses that she made. She covered the Secretary of Education of the Penitentiary of São Paulo, explanations about the failures of the GPS signal of all the laws used by Deborah. Deborah has already fulfilled three years of Penna in the post, the largest part in the closed regime. The manager of the condemnation turned a symbol of the fight for the friendship to the benefits of the 8th January. Almost 200 people still follow the increases in the closed regime, and the 12-metry law approved by the Congress and that could be put the majority of this people in liberty was suspended by the own speech by Deborah's monocratic way. And only he can send the case to the plenary's press when he understood. It is not difficult to understand why these elections so many people, so many voters, will prioritize the candidates to put a frame of judicial persecution that is now in the country. The last scenario is only starting, I invite you to come with us, leave your like, subscribe to the channel, share our content. I'm the one here on my side, Fredrick Juncker. Are you okay Fred? Welcome. Hello, Thomas Ivanova. Good evening. Good evening, too. Good morning, Ani Diaz. Good morning, everything okay? Good evening, Thomas. Good evening, Tom. Good evening, Tom. Good evening, Tom. Good evening, Tom. Good evening, Tom. And also today, with the people of Gabriel, from the street of Castro and from all over the town. Salve, Gabriel. You are welcome. Thank you, Tom. Good evening, Fred and you too. We're going to continue talking about the obsession of the Alexandre de Morais with Deborah, the boss of the boss, but before we have a very recent news from now on, which will also be very repetitive. Brazil continues to represent a common and extraordinary common and extraordinary in the national security, the external policy and the economy of the United States. This evaluation was reinforced today by President Donald Trump to promote for more than a year the declaration of national emergency against Brazil, maintaining executive order that he signed in July last year. To redo this measure, Trump says that it is worth the reasons that led to adopt emergency. Among them, the allegations of restrictions, freedom of expression, violations of human rights and political persecution to the former president of the United States. The document also returns to quote the decisions of the STF, as part of the context that in the vision of the White House justifies the maintenance of the decree. To specifically treat the Brazilian judiciary the government's text of the firm's Trump. These actions include orders to force platforms online of the United States to censor accounts or content many times for political discourse protected in the United States and to be given the users. The American document continues to say that some of these orders were submitted in secret, asking the companies, the users, to be informed about their content or have the opportunity to context them. And yet, in relation to the President of the Bolsonaro, the American government document says that the President would be the target of a political persecution. The persecution, intimidation, censorship and political process, against the President Bolsonaro, the document, and thousands of his supporters constitute serious violations of human rights that infract the state of Brazil. In practice, the persecution of this decree does not automatically create new sanctions against the tariffs that are already imposed in Brazil. However, it preserves a legal base that allows the American government to adopt new economic and diplomatic measures at any time against our country. That is, the government's record seems to be a crisis between two countries and a fate. And then we get asked, how will the government react to imagine? Yes, then. First of all, to have the most common context, the American government has done it with other countries, including countries that are democratic, but in the case of Brazil, there is this specific mention and explicit to the USTF and to the abuse of the USTF which does not exist in the decree that is being treated by other countries. So, if it is true that the Trump government has tried to import tariffs on other countries, in some cases, using questionable arguments, which have been accused of being questioned in the American Supreme Court. In Brazil, there is a solid base to treat Brazil as a country that has desesteitated not only the own constitution of Brazil, but also American companies that have a constitutional protection in the United States, including the American citizens who had rights violated, even the freedom of expression. So, it is a sign of the American government that does not intend to take care of this treatment in Brazil, but also Brazil can not wait to the Brazil, as people say, not to expect the government to rule now, understand that really the USTF with the tax support or the explicit of the government itself has been accused of repeating it sometimes of its powers. The rule may be this way, as a munition for the election, this speech that Brazil and the US have been suffering from, that they face the Ziancs, and that they have enough courage to face Donald Trump, he thinks that this can be done by some votes in October. I think no, I think that in those who have the position to vote in the rule, I will vote for other reasons and now, now, I would like to support the rule because of this specific issue. A few Brazilians have more experiences and few people decide to vote with the US-Political Basin or in the beginning of the war. In fact, this, unfortunately, I do not think the law will or the USTF will change the position and try to talk with a conversation, a negotiation, and who will be the Brazilians, especially the supporters, who have this delicate situation of tariffs, and potential tariffs, even more in the middle of the break, and they become a defense, right? So, on the other hand, politically, the Bolsonaro Flavio and other names on the right, have this difficulty on one hand, they have to criticize the USTF and criticize the government in the rule, but they cannot, they cannot seem to that they also support new tariffs, or the tariffs that already exist that have to be increased by the American government. So, this is the short-term about which the Flavio, the Cahead, and the Zema, Gabriel made a very important detail, right? There are many other countries that are just in the Brazilian case, if the finger pointed out, and if the paper is removed from the judiciary, a judiciary that is making political persecution, opponents, conservators of the regime. This is a very important detail and with very strong words, no, Fred. Well, Tose, if you see this addition in the declaration of emergency to the part of the American government, based on the law and the EPA, which is the law of economic powers and international emergency. This is a law of 1977 that the United States wrote a new legal verb, and even a interesting point of reflection that the creation of the law has precisely seen with the sense of the word the American, put a brake in the actions of the executive powers. Before the law, what was seen in the United States was called the Trailing with the NME Act, a 1917 law, was created in the context of the first World War, precisely for those United States to be able to adopt economic pressure, against enemy nations. And there was not even a mechanism in the 1917 law to counter the event of the actions of the executive power. The EPA was created in 1977, precisely in the context of the War of Vietnam, in which declarations of an extraordinary threat in the economy, the security of the United States can be submitted to a annual annual revision by the legislative power. So, President, he does this declaration for the past year, and if he thinks that the reasons for the declaration remain he does a review. And that was the case here with Trump. This official publication and then it can be submitted to the American Congress to understand the revocation. But what matters in this document is precisely the reasons for the American government. In other countries, this was used to make the famous tariff during the great part of the nations of the world, just by alleging the issue of practices, commercial, discriminatory, injustices, against American products, not so much the Supreme Court of the United States, it revoked the tariff of Trump based on the law alleging the following. Look, this law does not regulate the international trade. However, the power of regulation does not include the power of tributary of tariff and that is why this practice of Trump's vocation of this legal base in constitutional. So, here is also an interesting question. Since Trump can't apply this law to end the application of new tariffs in relation to Brazil, and he made the base of another law of the international trade trade of 1964, of the famous 301, what he does now, he invokes the new application of the law not to end the tariff, but to end the application of sanctions against Brazilian authorities, individuals, that the mechanisms of this law are similar to the laws of the Magnitzky law. When the Magnitzky law was applied, against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the prohibition of entering the American territory, the prohibition of commercializing and establishing any type of commercial relationship against the current financial system, with individuals or companies, Americans and with the active management. So, the objective of Trump to make the law of this emergency declaration is, eventually, apply sanctions against Brazilian authorities and sanctions that are equivalent to sanctions of the Magnitzky law, with the inscription of the name of the designated individuals, on the famous list of the law, the secretary of the foreign control and the active control. So, the objective of Trump with the addition of this emergency declaration is, eventually, apply sanctions against the public and Brazilian authorities, considering and, as well, express in the document, that the reasons for the application of the tariff at that moment remain. Basically, a judicial jurisdiction, law, law, and judicial authorization to end the political persecution, and we start here on the newspaper, making the mention of the case of the debauchery of the battle, the real two-year-old, the president's own, Jair Bolsonaro, and the question of censorship, the rumble, for example, is forbidden to operate in Brazil since February, from the past, precisely because it was like to buy illegal orders from the Ministry, Alixan Memorial, the secret illegal orders of censorship that were raped, also, in the international law, when Alixan Memorial is forced to buy the assistance of the Jewish community between the United States and Brazil, the procedure of the sub-trials trying to intimate the rumble that had no written in Brazil, came in the middle. So, the importance of this act and that it indicates that, probably, Brazilian authorities, as well as the sanctioned the Ministry of Alixan Memorial, can be sanctioned by law and the EPA, because, as I said here, it can't be applied to end the tariff, in the form of a Supreme Court, but it can be applied, individually, in relation to the individuals to the authorities that are linked to the motives and the incendiaries of this emergency declaration. Well, it's Anne, and look at this, not even the response of the Trump government, that negative view for both American State and American citizens, to come and follow the elections in Brazil, right? This promise that the government will react and give a response to the government, even to be fulfilled. But now, what I believe is here and put to you in the American document, is that it says that, remember, right? that some of the orders in the United States, were issued in secret, asking that the companies are used to inform about their content, or have the opportunity to contest. That was already shown behind it, now the government reaffirms this. And I'm imagining that a little bit, that Edson Fakim will come out with a note saying, look, all the decisions of the Ministry of the United States were supported, they were passed by the prisoner's tribe, by the vote of the other ministers and are perfectly cool. Simply, I put a note, be it the truth, be it the Fakim, be it the one to deny what is concrete, right? The orders are secreted, asking that the companies or the various were informed about their content, or have the opportunity to contest. That is just a note of the Fakim, be it the one to deny, will not change the truth of this fact. Well, Edson, I think it's a question about the reason, but unfortunately, it's not like that, they are precisely these ministers, right? A note, behind another to try to test what is not possible to complete the test. I say, not only in the reason of this denunciation of Trump, of this tension, of this relationship with the United States, in the own hope of the juzes conquered, with how they used the justice to persevere opponents, to cheat, to censor, to represent, to present, a democratic conflict that is, the appellation of the STF in relation to the political project of the current president of the republic. And then, I think the most serious, I found it fantastic, to talk about the term, so that's why I want to do it, because it's the most serious, we look here to the front. It's that, it will insist on the narrative for the electoral leader, that the coup is the Bolsonaro. That's all happening, we are being terrified, because Trump is the Bolsonaro's leader. And he is with this narrative, moving the federal paying the money, night and night, to sustain this narrative, and we have seen, yes, that there is a traditional political issue, as a more general public, as a general public, as a general public, and that is being sold by a cheap narrative. So, that's why it's so important to work in the latest analysis. And we always understand that it is a long-term project. If we did it, it's not a good idea to make the US present today, to present the planned planned plan of the government, that led to the coup of the diplomatic agreement to the end, and each of us has a solution to make the US talk about the US and the US. We are a little bit of a discussion, actually, with your sign, let's see if the US moves, the exchange, and the operator, they contract a different plan. Anyway, we are with the exchange, and we are going to try to adjust the sign of the internet, but in contrast, we are advancing with this break here, what you see, in the last weeks, the defense of the Dabra Rodrigues of the San dos Dabra of the baton comes to insisting along the STF so that the cavalry can be crossed after three and a half of release and there is a consensus, Dabra has no right to tell the 181 days of the penalty in the law of law, all the courses that he did in the period that was in preventive prison. But the detail here of the three and a half that has already fulfilled the penalty, two years, Dabra passed in preventive prison. Nothing that he did there can be told to the remission of the penalty second of the morality. Murais does not want to know about the reduction of the penalty and he finished that the Secretary of the Administration of the Pinedaire of São Paulo explains the signs of the GPS of the electronic law of Dabra and the defense already informed that no court-owned measure was violated. But Murais demands a law of the prison that proves that this is reality. Well, the case of the baton is not a case any. It is a symbol of the injustices that many of the law come in the state of the United States of the Eighth of January. And one of the reasons for the Congress will be approved by the 12-metre law of penalties. It is only ironic that only the press suspends why? For the last moment of the day of the baton and hundreds of prisoners of the Eighth January we wonder if this situation can still be fought in the country. We know that Murais will return to the official programs and the election because the elections are approaching. Despite not happening to any person. How do you open to see this, returning this debate in all of the restrictions imposed by the debauchery, the baton and the fact of Murais is a little out of the action, but it is only that we have just talked about these measures of the American government by reforcing that the persecution of the Brazilian officials has the decisions of Murais negating any penalty for the debauchery and asking for the secretary of the press. What is happening with the former jail, if she did not be infringed without a court measure. It is a obsession, someone obsessed by another person. You know, Gabriel, it is not common, right? Murais will be caught in this election in the end of the whole of the seats. And also the debauchery will be quite remembered because it is one of the people who were unjustly condemned. And why the country approved a law of the Penas and the court of Murais and Gabriel. Exactly. And before it is good to remember, just to recap, it was when the 14-year-old prison was not to believe anyone physically, not killed anyone. Apparently nobody broke the invasion of the STF, she took the state with the baton. Only at the Brazil's drug trafficking five years, and a little and it is also difficult. It is possible, you kill two people in the Brazil and get a 12-year-old jail, a 14-year-old prison, obviously very disproportionate. And not only that, as you mentioned, Murais goes through his throne in the Supreme Court, all the steps of the Penal of the own Penal of São Paulo explained the final of the due to the variation of the GPS, so there is no irregularity by the debora. In this case, Murais has never been satisfied. He always asks for another evidence and another explanation of these health of the other day. If this case does not be the case of the election and other cases of the U.S. do not receive the attention that should be received. Because the Bolsonaro is on his side and imagines the marketer's vote more conservative. They are already safe there. The votes of those who are interested and worry about the fate of the people arrested and already are against the Bolsonaro. And so, what said the human law, unfortunately, of the marketer's he has to expand his base. He has to talk a little about women, maybe minorities, guarantee he will not end up with a family. So, for him, the pragmatic point if he followed the human law of the marketer's vote is not the most important. Unfortunately, the people should be one of the most frequent in the electoral debate. Certainly, but I don't know if it will be. I imagine there is a dispersion during the electoral process unfortunately, but once again. But maybe in some states, at least, the race for the Senate specifically gave more attention to the case of the Obama-Tubatou more attention to the European Union and the United States. I hope it will happen. I'm not very optimistic with the political presidential policy. I think even many of these races are defined by the definition of the BNS. Someone who is more popular who makes the dance better, who is a bit more important than the idea of the President of the House and I hope one day, perhaps, the court and the president of the Brazil have 300,000 handed in the open second of the Senate. Having 10,000 of these handed in the open more than 10 years and being following the step by step of the debate. It is a very close-knit close-knit or even a little bit in the first hand. We have access and it was not used yet. The manifestation of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Health responding to the Ministry of the Ministry of Health and Health and Health is a violation of the foreign policy. The Ministry of Health and Health has sent the absence of the GPS signal, and so on, and so on. The Ministry of Health is giving an information about the problems of the Internet, the occurrences that happen, and what is different from a released violation. We will talk about it. Just a minute ago, we will be back to the Senate. There in the Union of 55 small agricultors, and in 62 years, the referendum of the Brazilian industrial economy has been announced and more than 27,000 functionaries, movement of the economy, general opportunities and environmental inequalities in Brazil and more than 103 countries. This is the air, cooperating to improve the life of people. And the truth is, when architecture, technology, experience, comes together. Diana, I have said something. The high tower is a wide-fledged system, which improves the thermal and the education addition to the concept of the environment, with a generator 100% of the equipment, including the equipment. We also have the infrastructure for automation, electrical vehicles and the interior project was all-assigned for the University of Earth. Technology applies to the future. High-Talver, TAPEMA, innovation. So, let's answer the Secretary of the Ministry of Health of São Paulo, the Office of the Ministry of Health and Environmental Sciences, asking the explanations why the OV fails in the communication of all the laws of the Debra of the Santos Interconrential Exhibition if the OV is violated if it violates the means of the calculations that they were imposed. And the industrial strategies until I was showing the project here, it was making a line of how an oil-based environment, saying that it is normal to see intercorrances, the additional satellite and that does not characterize the environment to see the environment or the violation the oil-based environment would be immediately and has how to do it, right? And not only the problem of the patch of the telecommunication atmospheric interference, this is natural the transmission system of the moving data. Now, if the rapid-diffication violation of security the use of signs of the causes positive so, this would be detected and the answer was no. No, any violation please understand that these actions are just the signal of the internet. Basically, this was the answer, right? Fred. Well, it's Tosey, you see that the servers of the construction company of São Paulo have more legal and technical support than the Ministry of the Supreme Court. And what is the attention in this case? If you take the story of the Supreme Court of the federal government of the criminal actions and the legal movement that there was a series of rails and the fire in the air condition and even the fire in the air condition with the concern that it had with the condition of that process when at the time of the penal execution what did it do? It delegated the execution of the execution to the execution of the penalty establishment precisely because this is a act of the practice of the race of these executed executions and it does not be a constitutional of the highest court of the judiciary to be administering a process in relation to each incident that can occur or not during the process of the penalty execution of the penalty. And you put very well, Tosey, which is, by the Minister of the Elemoreals, it is an obsession with the eight-day way how all these processes start and with the one that large report Vasatoga 2, journalist David H. who showed that the minister of the Elemoreals was worth the eight-day way to make, even propaganda political. For example, when he was released, women were not at the age of March wanting to put there as if he had taken a mandatory decision or when he decided to pay attention to the non-president and the ideological with the lack of faith in the social networks and the publications that the eight-day were doing. Our social networks have been long-term, even before the imputations. And then you see, beyond your obsession you are trying to get a decision that he takes his own life over the current rape attempt of rape of the tornozelie you see there the amount of times that the defense of the laborer asks the minister to decide about the progression of regime from October last year. We are talking here about a period of almost a year in which the minister clearly is going to be forced to deviate those demands to be prolonged action and not to have executed your patrimonial actions. If you see the judge adopting the chicane is not the right to the light of the penal execution of the penal process the progression of your regime. And remembering even in the case of the laborer, which is emblematic of this judicial persecution in the parliamentary minister Olegio Limorais, who in the worst to apply the rigor of the laborer's conduct in the question of the market there with the status of the justice in the three-way powers. This is a call of the most powerful, a pre-previous crime in the environmental crime law that would have as much as a human a year of attention and then you have all instruments called discriminators and discriminators and that you have the penal training of a series of criminal execution and that you seek to penalize your individual life when you practice a criminal potential offensive. In this case of the laborer, he responded for five crimes, it was sentenced 14 years of prison out of the payment of a murder of a millionaire and did not have the individualized conduct, all those illegalities that we know in the violation of the legal legal process of the original regime in a static way in relation to this prolongation of the laborer when, very well put in the defense of it, he would have the right to the progressive and you have the minister deliberated by recording the situation and even considered that the laborer transformed into a single greater symbol of this political state of Brazil. To see between the robbers made by the moral these Court that killed when, Ilian from the criminal courts to be precise together makes human rights and it will not be a proof of course, for him even corrected, given a review there. Describing my story is a course name, look at the type of course that is obligation to do. And it's normal, the main interest of a minister of the highest court in the country, the first of the only one of the leaders, as Gabriel said, right? So many people there, who are sent to prison in Abet, but he wanted to know everything in detail about the devil. Even the course that he made has been certified, is cataloged, has been thought to write the proofs, it's not normal, someone is so obsessed with another person, how do we call it? In English it's stalking, right? So stalking judicial, we are watching. Exactly, to be honest, but unfortunately, it's not just stalking the devil, right? I remember that Luisa, the daughter of the class, came here in the newspaper, I didn't interview the people's newspaper, and said, she did this same question, daughter, for those who don't remember the audience, the daughter of the class, who died inside the prison because of negligence of the moral standards that didn't authorize her exit to medical treatment. So the daughter of her, once, is a journalist here in the newspaper, and said that she also questioned that. So what is the reason behind it? Because I'm her father, why is he, I remember a sentence that was in my head, from this interview, she said the following, she even talked about it with her psychologist, and she was reflecting, how she slept at night, knowing everything she ate. And that even bothers me, because I remember Luisa, a young, 18, 19, all the future in front of me, seeing that the life of her father was simply interrupted by a minister, for a judicial decision, completely crazy, completely necessary, theoretically, both in the class and in the department, both the other, the other victims of this process are the direct victims, who lost their lives or are in prison, as a case of the department, are the direct victims of the family who will suffer for the sake of this decision. And then, these days, I was even watching a series of Hitler, to understand more as it was that movement in that time, which is something that is interesting, we remember, and tragic, when we compare that to the Brazilian scenario, is the first actions of Hitler, which were serious, were serious, right? Hitler is everyone knows who he became, but at the beginning, when he had arrived in the Empire, everything he became, all the evil he left to humanity, he had already done terrible things, like, for example, one day, that he, the allies, they looked at the ministers of the government in a military service with weapons, with weapons, they were going to have a coup, they would take Germany and they were arrested, but he didn't stay for more than two years in prison, he knew a sentence less than five years ago, someone who tried to take a coup of the state, not only to take the ministers into a military service, and said he would take the control of the government of Germany, and he also wrote a book in prison, but what is the comparison here? Someone who, in fact, had a French citizenship, he apologized to the country, because without the function of the government, he left to always, not to leave the room, to comment on what he committed, he realized that a prisoner who has no way of saying, to argue with the government, can't even talk about it, he didn't say that a prisoner of the family wanted to give a coup of the state. And he was condemned for two, five more or five more or five more or five more or five, during the Bolsonaro government, that is, he had no precedent before, he said that someone tried to try to counter democracy or give a coup of the state in the hands of the two artists who are being condemned, that is, the first time someone is being condemned, it's precisely the moral Alejandro, who you know how it works, taking people out of the community, giving people a coup, and then, just to finish my first analysis, what I see in this case, positive, is that we at least use the fold as a symbol, that we always remember, every time we use a button, remember that there was a woman who is arrested because a girl took a button in the wall, that we don't forget that, because they want more, that we forget, that is, a curious detail, in this space of the Alejandro de Marais, the minister made a mention to a request of interview, the Gazeta do Povo did, to interview the double of Santos. We will show you the third one, on April 7th, in 2016, the Gazeta do Povo presented the following requirement. Antio, the expo, considering the deferment of a request similar, in 25 of March, requires the deferment of the present request, so that it is considered a authorization for the Gazeta do Povo to be a little interview, recorded in audio and video, with the red, double of Santos. Curious of this, that the Morais did this observation there in his space, on the middle of the sidewalk, against the double, but it didn't take a moment. It took only 100 explanations, just saying that, the Gazeta's request, I don't know why he mentioned this in this space, but it didn't take a moment. And then, of course, journalists were arrested, I tried to find out with colleagues what happened, if he was there, but he doesn't say that he was there, and the information that we have with the lawyer of the Debra's own, is that it's absurd. He said that he was there, but he never confessed, he didn't say anything about it, and he didn't authorize the interview. If he didn't even say that he was transmitted to his opponents, as the case of the Jair Bolsonaro, he said he was asked to interview. He left an previous request to the West, but to Gazeta do Povo, he didn't defer. Or simply he didn't decide because he himself was in this space and he didn't say anything about it. He did mention the case, he left it there, maybe he had a decision or something, but the amount of information was left. It's strange, because the legal pieces of the space were used to claim a coherence in the place of representing what is being petitioned, the context, etc. But he left the decision and asked us all the time. Did you ask the interview or the interview? Well, the moral issue is that it is very good and it is surrounded by accessories including jewelry, which is very good too. We could use it sometimes, at least there is the free version of the chat GPD to review it, and see if there is any coherence in the decision. Imagine that they tried to have a decision to review the professional of our colleagues from the IA. This is it. We have already read our request and even mentioned that he responds a little more, right? taking as the previous owner in the form of this compound. Now, talking a little more seriously, it is worrying that he has the science of the request, or that he has already rejected by writing the request. In case of Bolsonaro and the militias of Bolsonaro, right? Bolsonaro has been far from the social media. You cannot interview it, you cannot write it, it is difficult. It seems that you are talking about this term it seems very good to understand the Mild here that the moral minister does not have the security of the militias. They are thesis and software because he tries to call those who are the victim of the decision for this to be exposed and also in a direct form or in a direct way, he tries to give other candidates and influencers who also denounce these abuses in their own morals. It is not possible that there is an election transparent in this scenario. Bolsonaro cannot write the request, even if it cannot be interviewed. Maybe Bolsonaro from IA, the convention of the Pet, also being closed, right? That virtual view of Bolsonaro has been made with a robotic voice. It seems that it can be a problem there to campaign to talk about Bolsonaro. The main part of the idea is that the bulls, we are in a free election transparent, open, will decide. If you ask about moral thesis, about moral professors and authors, he will say that in a public and democracy, it is necessary that voices be a space for to be pronounced and be forgotten, the voices of the dissident, etc. But moral juiz does not have enough confidence in the decisions to prevent your critics from pronouncing and I think that is the problem of moralism. A bit of the truth, too, of the security of the practices, of security of six-post-curricular and so on, as a matter of fact, it is always possible to prevent your critics from pronouncing. The interview now, or not the interview, send a message, a ticket, a crime, the debate, the debate, the saints, was not authorized to interview the public, but, curiously, it was authorized to be authorized to be an unique interview, and it will be, it said things that moralism would not like to have been sold out, and then even reading this decision, which makes the mention of the newspaper's request, I remember a case in which the case, the Homer Marquez, it was censored by the minister Alexandre Morais in November of 2022 and it happened to be a similar case, to see that this is a method of the minister Alexandre Morais. When he does not want to face a request, a law-afforded by the defense, that his own constitution in his article 5 says that it is a reasonable case. In the case of Homer, he had censored three socials of Homer in November of 2022. So the president of the Artool Lira's office does a request for him in the end of December, look, the deputies who are censored, there are no way you, Alexandre Morais, in December of 2022, gives a decision and he forgets to include the Instagram of Homer. We are embargoed, called in the declaration of a request that ends with a omission in the judicial decision, and this is going to take simply, if Anton was on the process, he did not face our request, until the January and February 2023, Homer will be held in the state of the state of the state. Because, as the debacle, there is no original competence of the STF to help the citizen, not to exercise any public cargo, in the case of state deputies, when you talk about criminal practice, the competence is the Earth or the case of federal crimes or the Tegetas in the case of federal justice in the state of Paraná, and there is all that he has been trying to understand the process of the federal government to then the prosecutor of the public with the STF is obviously a case of freedom of expression can be restored immediately the accounts of the social record in the case of the first decision. And then the decision of the decision that is unfortunately a method of the minister. He does this simply when he does not want to get a question, in the case of the state deputies, he does not want the same as the other interview. The journalist had a lot of interview, he said to the US, the newspaper also said he said, no, to not have to deny when he had a federal police carcillage, he just preferred to simply get on the street, go to the temple, the people will forget. So, unfortunately, with the base of a testimony, that lawyer who had been in this process of the minister's perception of the minister in the morning, this is a method of the minister. The impression because with his own space and the thing is that the police is the same. And you know how much he will be asking again. But look, few days, the government ruled the two officials of the US who would like to come to Brazil to verify the freedom of expression in the electoral process. We mentioned earlier. The government understood this request as a insult and is preparing a response. The government of the US can be here. You see, just Annie. In May, Lula signed those decree that would be in the market on the Internet, giving obrigations and penalties for the digital platforms about the legal and legal reasons and now, after that, the government that created the new rules is the most fair of the other in the rules that he created. The whole report shows that the judiciary has never been so excited to take the rights of the government. There are already 80 actions in the Lula campaign of the PT 25% more than all the actions moved in the same period of the 2022 elections. And look at how we still have more weeks, the strategy of the PT is to monitor the rules in search of disinformation, use of artificial intelligence propaganda, be it what they can square now with a attack democracy or more severe criticism. And then we ask if we are in front of a typical right-wing panel the government created the rule against its critics. And the parliament. Look, what the parliament is. Well, Tosie, very few countries have been tired and the Fred used a word in the speech of the US. I was even asking him if he wants to adopt more of my vocabulary. It's a method of Tosie. This is a method of the law that is proven and they do all the opportunities to regulate the law as we call it. It is to endure the legislation to make it harder to make the social issues to bring some behind-the-scenes freedom or to work on the disinformation story and we will sit in the congress and work on the law and try to do the normal process. This was tried to do with the PT and the system was working and it was very hard and it was broken. And then they returned to the STF because the STF is so short that it is difficult to use to give a decision about the position and the position that will be understood and how we transform in a press chat to make it more difficult to myself to throne the law of legislation until the MSQP who Schon has rediscovered the whole system and the debates against such a!!! which must be directly disrespectful to manage a alteration where the STF and will do the work and is now going is the moment they were so desperate and working since 2022. Since 2022, the social networks increased a lot, including the influences or people who grew up from social networks were elected, and mainly the big part of these people were right, that is, people used networks to transmit information that is more difficult to be in the big conference, which is more difficult to reach people since the system, for them, is all the big conference and the media and the media are traditional communication. Obviously, I open the access to the people's gas station, which is not a curvy system, but I know that you know. And then, at the time of election, they choose all of this that they have planted. They choose the censorship, the expression of information, and they choose the message that they get the most easy to choose. In practice, this is the manipulation of electoral strategy. And this is what they accuse all day, of Trump doing the milleil, and everyone interferes in the elections in Brazil less, the own PT and the own SF. These are the limits and the partitions. So, these never miss anything. Well, we, from what I'm going to talk about the strategy, Daniel Volcaro, who now seems to be going, he decided to hire the lawyer who was the lawyer of the Maulucide to see if he was distracted by the pre-media delation. Well, Maulucide and a lot of things were described, easy, let's see if this strategy works to counter this evocative, of that special client who was a very peculiar case of the Basileiro Resente. We talk about this in 30 seconds after the message here from our sponsor. When you know the paper, you understand why so many people started to look to the electoral catalytic of a different way. The central beach, the localization, the value and quality of life in the markets that more grow in Brazil. And we are exactly in the center of all this. Raítau Eritapema, here, has the localization. Today, the case is a matter of the kind of summary of the news, but it's not dead. Daniel Volcaro, who is in Brazil, seems to be discontent with the team of lawyers again and after having two alleged delation proposals rejected by the federal police, the lawyer is in the process of changing the lawyer. But once again, and the contract, as I mentioned, would be the Cesar Bitenkur, who led the current delation agreement of the coronel Mausseid, which appears on the right of Mausseid. He would be even representing the juridical streets as the new defender of Daniel Volcaro, who is denied by the Céjulianard, who is the current lawyer. Well, I wanted to know what you can expect from Daniel Volcaro. You know, the delation story. It seems like now it's a letter to the A's that he pushed, the A's of Paul, to Regra Brinjal, to the back of the lawyer who disdraved the Mausseid delation. I hope so, I'm a bad player of the barrali, but what is the more strong letter that is now? There is a bit of satisism as well, because the case of Mausseid, the delatators, were from another nature, there were some political forces, but they didn't involve the Cesar's delation. In this case, as we know, from Volcaro, the network of contacts, of figures that received money, or that they asked for money for him, or that they were benefited, or that they had wives, and they wanted a lot of talented people who, therefore, received very generous contracts, also from Volcaro, this network is much more profound, and it also reaches a longer range, in this world here in Brazil. I think it's still very difficult, that this delation comes completely, and being incomplete is not a valid delation. A complete delation can be even more unjust than the non-delation, you tell the truth, and then you will not have a right result. You tell the second-hand gala, according to the apagand of all the males, the Nazism will appear, maybe the British and the American, are psychopaths who were invading the countries of Eich. So, you need to tell the story, but the opposite of what happened in some cases, like in Petrolão, also more adiante with a CID delation, perhaps, it is not accepted by the members of the own court, who is taking the adiante to these investigations. And also members of the other organs of investigation. This is the great dilemma, in this case, in Volcaro, when they suggested to the Nazis, for example, the Tophili problem, and what I am doing, when they suggested the information, involving the Ministry of Morais, and the exposure of it, the feeling that there was the perception of the public opinion of the people who were paying attention, who are paying attention to the news, and have the concern with the injury, the process, the process within a republic, was that, well, finally, for them, the Morais and the Tophili, the conditions, more continue in the STF, and from there to here, nothing happened. Nothing happened because of the accident, it was not taken by the adiante, the request of the impeachment of Morais, also the case of the Tophili, not another CPI that has touched on it, or its background, and the perception that exists, for my part, is that nothing will happen, nothing will happen, nothing will come to Morais. Then the audio of the plane came, and the people who were paying attention to the case, the fact that the Jax Wagner, and the thing is that it was lost, I do not know if it was missing of tools to take the adiante of some of these investigations, or if it was due to a taciturn, in which the politicians, suddenly, realize that people from different sides were involved, and therefore it was not worth to leave much in this subject. The hope that exists is to turn the matter into a point of view, comparing the not-delação with the not-delação, to think that it can happen in the world, in the box, if it is not. But once again, the lawyer, he was a friend of many people, including the SDF, so I think that for him, it is even cheaper to try other paths, a commotion there, make some kind of a joke, than a complete adelação. Well, it is, Fred, what Gabriel puts there is, but at least that situation, it is worth to deal with the tubarons, and then try to be protected by the beams, to deal with the tubarons, which are over there, here we will not have strength to support it. But the fact, as it were, is that, the lawyer, the lawyer, Fred, dreams about the same defect, committed by the coronal treatment, he put the cup in half a dozen people, without tests, basically only because he spoke and left and read that. At this point, makes sense of the role of the lawyer, calling César Bitencura, if at the end, Bitencura managed the test to validate the adelação of the not-delação, the lawyer's adelação is a hand with the sugar. Well, to be chosen, it is just a tip for this, a large seed, which, even, was in many times, compiled by the Ministry of Humanities, this is public, it is not a reality, it is just a reality, there is a determinative narrative of the facts, a version of the facts, that is caught in the narrative, both by the Ministry of Humanities and by the general prosecutor of the Republic, Paulo Goneque, then transforms this narrative into a history of the César Bitencura and is precisely because of that. If you look at the laws of criminal organizations in Brazil, which regulates the institute of the pre-ordered collaboration, there are very clear essential requirements of the collaborations, which is the collaboration that preaches with the statement about all the facts, and that all the division of the task is exposed to the criminal impending of the criminal organization, and this, before the facts were published, would they deliver the facts involving the diasophil, the resort that is there, and the Ministry of Humanities, its wife and contract, of 129 million reais. But some questions, will the Ministry of Humanities validate a collaboration that delivers the head of a colleague, of the Federal Supreme Court? He made it clear that he was in a debate with the government, when the government of the preventive prison of the Vorkáro Pai, that would never accept a selective delation. Even the Minister of Humanities was trying to evaluate this statement of the Minister of Humanities, insisting that he had committed my legality or conversation with the lawyer of the Vorkáro and the Pai, and that his statement was clear that they made decorausses of a selective agreement with the government of the Vorkáro Pai, that would accept a agreement of this already. Therefore, you see in part, especially in the Jumar, in the office of the Alixel Moraes this movement of the ambassador to try to to evade the banquemaster scandal Gabriel Belimbró here that the Supreme Court created a jurisprudence. Precisely to prevent the installation of the banquemaster of the Congress of the Vorkáro Pai, that is based on the United States of the Constitutional Equities, the three equities to the installation or the propagation of a CPI, the right fact, the right fact, and the requirement there, signed by a third of the members of the legislative houses. And then, the decision of the Russian Union is not allowing the continuity of the NSS's CPM but the real objective was to anticipate the installation of the CPM, to be forced to do the internal regiment of the National Congress. So, unfortunately, we see that there is a TAPT in Brazil taking advantage of the own Electoral calendar and all the attention of the public because a deal here, we have to recognize and what distinguished the fact that there is a gap of other operations of this high corruption, but high spheres of power. And then, the two of us, we have to recognize that there is a gap of other operations that are not allowed to be used in the public opinion. And then, we have to recognize that there is a gap of other operations that are not allowed to be used in the public opinion. And then, the public gave the support to the operation because in the practice, the new act was finally after the operation, the Federal Police did the operations and the second act were in the STF, they found some technicality, some filigree to do the operations. And in the new act, at the time of the pandemic, people were in their homes and the STF took advantage of this and started to go there, especially for the actions of the Stoffel's operations, the conditions of the La Bajata operation, and also at the moment in which the public opinion was not mobilized by the fact that the investigation of the operation was not allowed. So what they want to do at this moment is to take advantage of the fact that the operation is still in Brazil that despite the negotiations around a state of delay to appear in every more distant, the expectation is that the Federal Police is still in the same state and the news and news of the investigations and this can happen before the investigations about the scandal of the master. But that doubt as Gabriel put in the US to involve so many people in the political party, will the case of the master and the risk of the collapse of the electoral debate would be almost a fact there, there are people who are enrolled in all political parties, so the best thing is that this issue comes and goes, and this is the public opinion that this issue can not be left in the elections and the public opinion is that of the court and the master's bank is not allowed to debate in the next weeks that will be a debate of this issue. Perfect, Tose. This is the point. There are things that are not in our control. The timing of this investigation as it will be this new process of delay. If it will be successful and we know that the public opinion has been bought and it is clear that it has interference, it has authority, so this is not our control. But what is in our control is the ability to inform the public that the public is already aware of the public opinion and that the public is already associated with the public opinion and that is more than proven and that of the public opinion and that of the public opinion and it is clear that the public is already all coverage because of the wordlooks spread to public comment because and… to buy, to buy well, to defend themselves more or less, and then come out, come that has been paid, no one else remembers it. Also because they have not spoken of Levant Doves, who also had his son, taking the contract, doing the contract with, well, the bank Master, also in this case, it seemed like it was involved. And here, if I'm talking, Tosa, we'll go to the whole night, until the coffee with the morning and the morning, we're talking about the names involved. The point is that they exist, they are here, they can't buy an involvement. If I'm going to quote a name that I can't leave to the past, Hugo Mota, Hugo Mota, who never explained the impressive millionaire to the entrocade of actions that cost me 100,000 reais, a fraction of 100,000 reais, gave the right to give him a million reais, if it doesn't make a lot of sense, mathematically it doesn't make sense, even a bank would do that. And, anyway, it also goes out, and it will be there in October asking for your vote. So we can't forget these names and our responsibility. And even if it takes this investment, it is remembered that they are already involved, already demonstrated related to the case, and they are fighting in our door, sending a little bell, impulsing a post of Instagram to ask for our vote. And our vote for these people can't be selected, it's not ours, as of all those we know. It's our function to try to spread the truth in the mouth, since they have the system, they have the machine, and they have the whole political weight to try their relationship. But see what happens. In what depends on the government, Lula, in the next 100 years, no one will know who entered and who left the Daneelvo carousel in the period of three months in which he was arrested in the superintendence, and the Federal Police in Brazil received dozens of visits. The Justice Minister, Elin Tomcés Alima, and Silva, had to keep the police in the post. And the rule is that they need to preserve personal information, related to the intimacy and the private life of the Vorkar. As soon as the government is covering a measure that was exactly the same as the Vial Colubri, the president of the Senate, who also imposed hundreds of years in the records of the Vorkar's access to the cabinets there. Then, Gabriel, we need to have a little patience. The person is a little oppressed. For hundreds of years, and we're going to know of everything. I'm a visitor, I'm going to have someone with whom I met, at the moment, etc. What to say about this argument that it's necessary to preserve personal image and privacy of the citizen? And when it comes to counterposing this, the public interest of the Vial Colubri. When our guest had been living for 200 years, we were going to be close to knowing that we had the Vorkar. Obviously, it's an unidentifiable decision. We don't want to know how many times the Vorkar's aunt was visited. We want to know what the authorities, the politicians, and the people who were with him and, especially, know why. The fact of this decision in the city has given us some signs that there is a lot of depth in which these authorities want to hide. But we know, by the great, by the conversations, the level of proximity to the Vorkar's integrity with many public figures. What we know is that our constitution, which is young, and this spirit that there was with the new republic's beginning, of transparency, of the press should be deliberately investigated all sides of a lesson or the multiple sides involved in a scandal, this notion of that the criticizes the politicians, even though it lasts, and even though it injustices in some cases, it should be tolerated because a price is paid, the idea that citizens have the right to be manufactured freely to protest and even to hinder authorities, the idea that we should know, and that the rule is transparency, and in the case of the exceptional, we have the right to know who had important figures, who had the word of the plan, which is where the obligation of the agenda exists, but we know that the complete agenda of the president is not lawyers, people visit the president or the president's word, or the author's word, and some of these agenda are not lawyers. Our republic, which is still young, has been very bad in this regard, this perception that transparency is important, that the critic is important, that the book, the debate book is important, it is deteriorated very quickly, especially now, when, perhaps, that one should be the last law against these abuses in the West F, when the West F itself saw as an act, he helped build this wall, to put additional barriers against the freedom of expression, the freedom of debate, and this case of the agenda of the lawyer, of whom he came here, who visited the lawyer, is more unfortunately more functional than this almost the obsession that we had at the beginning of the democracy of the new republic, with transparency, with visibility of the data, this has been very quickly asked, unfortunately, and I don't think it will be so fast. Well, see, the senator Flávio Bolsonaro presented today to the federal police the statements of that inquiry that assures the supposed law against the president, the whole report, which is the Minister of State of Morais, had marked today the presidential document or by video conference, but the senator has been answered by the written. This action refers to a statement of Flávio made in January this year, later after the president of the governor of Venezuela was called Madoor. In the case of a candidate, he commented that Madoor would be a lunatic. Lula will be a lunatic, he said, is the end of the fall of São Paulo, the international drug and weapons traffic the money, support, the terrorist, the dictatorship, and the fraudulent elections. Well, Friday was the stupid opening of the inquiry against Flávio. The initiative was to be held in Lula, but a deputy federal officer who took the hours of the president. Morais reacted today and asked for explanations, he asked for explanations for the governor's organs, for other organs. He asked for explanations for the federal police because he was not welcome to the presidential document of Flávio and was accepted by this defense. That is, the circle continues Morais wants to know more than the defense by the law wants a presidential interrogator I don't know why, it's a tweet, a postage, just like that one there, it's hard to get even by force, very far from the right, to get to that one there, a calendar, we talked about this, sometimes, but it's a lot of force to get to that calendar, in that sentence, so we can't open the mouth here, because we're running the same risk. Well, you have in the body of the criminal three crimes against one. The crime of injury, which is your claim, the reputation of law, the crime of defamation when you attribute someone false, impute this person false, if the crime of the law when you attribute someone the practice of a crime, but a specific crime, this talk of Bolsonaro's senator Bolsonaro's why do you have to highlight this? Why? He's a parliament that has the right to freedom of expression and more, has the protection conferred by material immunity, the 50-interested article of the federal Constitution is the protection about which words, opinions and votes and which words are not there, your. He was a constitutional amendment, in 2001, and that if you just call it a chance of the material immunity of the parliament, and then our power, the constitutional amendment in 2001, and so on, so that there is no doubt about the protection conferred by the freedom of expression and the parliament, is a series of opinions and votes, and what the minister does by leaving the moral, the legal process, the role of material immunity as was made in the case of Daniel Silviera, in which he still takes the inflagrate, supposedly the crime that was not in the state of the flagrant and goes there, simply to consider the constitutional text. And here with the relevant, you touched on an important point that he would have been hired because Bolsonaro said Bolsonaro presented a manifestation when he is an eventful government of authority, he has this provocative choice or pre-established government, or in the event of the same compatibility of the agenda to make this manifestation for the written. He is in the preface of the penal code as well as the secretary of the administration he mentioned in the case of the debate that the simple interference in the electronic council of the electorate is characterized by the means of the court and the federal police have to remember the moral minister who is there for the purpose of the possibility of a written manifestation in the penal code. Obviously, the content of this speech that is also remembered by you is absolutely nothing. It is typically a political debate and in a context it is still important that we are treating the Holy Spirit, the foundation of the law and the federal caste in 1990 and that precisely this project and expansion of the left-wing left Latin American with the example of the 60th, he says, the drug trafficking, which is being said today in the street of Manhattan. Drug trafficking, drug cartels, fraud in election. The only fraud was not recognized as a legitimate president, but now Daniel Ortega, Nicaragua, who said that he will never give up the job to end the democratic regime. The best thing is that we will close elections and we need to end that we are a dictatorship. And what is the point there? The flag Bolsonaro just said that. This is the context of discussion in Latin America of this situation, of this left-wing left and drug trafficking, which he was specifically attributing to those crimes to the law. It is obvious that it is more a former minister wanting to use a parliamentary opinion to follow it. And in this case, it is a pre-andidate now suffragated in the convention of the party, the president of the republic and clearly, it is evident that this character also pre-secretly is a political pre-secret because you get the Gabriel and the president of the election of the morais, you take the course of the national debt, it is very clear. And he speaks in a way express the protection of freedom of speech is broad. He recognizes this, even with the base, in the pro-Juris-prodence of the American economy that the Supreme Court was saying many times in the free market of ideas. It must be considered in the public debate 20. He who can decide which is the best information from a state hotel, this from his own conscience. Yes, but not always it is written, right? And people like to re-scribe their trajectories, re-scribe their biographies as the course that is subjecting the debt of the button to re-scribe its history as part of the employment of the country. It was a mistake, people. It was a mistake, but it was a mistake in terms of because, realistically, it is still possible to debate this. In this week, some politicians, as the minister of the Mother Earth and the Federal Eduardo Bolsonaro, developed a video of the Elon Musk of two years ago. In this video, the billionaire of his opinion about the use of technology and a person that makes the post-used posts. But in relation to electronic waves, to trust in the algorithm or to the T.I. to which works perfectly perfectly, but that has its doubts, as the public says, is a mistake in the Internet. I've been programming computers since I was nine years old. I know how easy it is to get a line of software wrong or hack a computer. And so, the last thing we want to do is have electronic voting machines. We want paper ballots in person with ID. And actually, sort of, in terms of a real AI danger that hopefully is not there this year, but will certainly be a danger in the future, is that advanced AI will be super good at hacking computers. And so, if you have voting machines that are connected to the Internet, and you've got super advanced AI that can potentially affect those machines, I think that's very dangerous. So, what I'm saying is that I'm only someone who favors technology. I'm super, you know, 24th century technology boy right here. And I'm saying no no machines for voting. Well, the politicians there in the opposition brought back this talk about Elon Musk. But, coming from Elon Musk, someone who really dominates everything from the AI, and two years ago, when the AI was still getting caught by this, it's an idea. It has a point there, to affirm that it can't be trusted totally by the process of the election process, the election equipment. This was spoken about two years ago. The debate in Brazil was interpreted, right? Probably nobody will put this in the election campaign because of the risk of being punished by the attack of the democracy, the electoral justice, the zones. But we can debate here, the context of Elon Musk's speech that now is bringing again to some political and political leaders, so that the leaders think and can reflect on if they simply accept the wrong package, justified by the authorities because I say that because there are some of the stories that happen and then they try to do this. It's our right to listen and even repress the case of this fact of Elon Musk. Perfect, Tos. So, the first step I think we understand who is Elon Musk. He is not just the enthusiasm of technology or just the support of Trump, but the political political leader. He is the first trillionary of the story, the heritage of his company, and it means that he is in front of almost all other companies in the world, mainly in the technology market. He has a mission of life for you to have an idea colonize the city. This is the same human being and he is the first to invest so much in technology. So, today, his companies, so much in evidence, Tesla, he I will not go too much in the market of automotive cars with electronic cars, which today, even China, is dominating, but he was one of the pioneers that electronic cars are in any corner of the world. Here in Brazil, for example, there is a corner in the inside of the Amazon, which, in the internet, is the Starlink, because the government can't come there, because it is appropriate. So, Starlink comes, that is, if you understand, the capitalarity that one of the companies has. And then, the third is the Space X, and it is not only in the software, it has almost all the network of the territories inside the earth and the moon. I am not a better understanding of this, I just like to study a little bit about the Elon Musk, but I know that the amount of satellites that he has, that is his, of the Space X, is something that interferes a lot there on the internet, data, and, in short, many important things for society. So, this is the way the sound is not a direct stream, no revolutionary stream, which is a state-owned goal, no one who doesn't believe in technology. On the contrary, he lives in the trilionary technology, in the technology, he understands what he is talking about. So, if I could make a comment about this, it is the second. I don't understand the hacker of this system, but I know that Elon Musk understands, and he is afraid, he is with the network. So, we should do this in consideration. Then, just to finish, I wanted to remind you of a situation that happened in some cities in Brazil, I know that Curitiba, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, just something else, it also happened that it was after Brazil's game, and it is that our cell phone disappeared with a record of the defense of the civil defense of Misandria. So, after we were memorizing the game in Brazil, everyone took a scare with their phone, I recently heard, I can't be wrong, it's not an official information, but I saw that it seems that it was a teenager who managed to do this, who managed a public database, and then, in a very bad way, with no much to do, it was this adventure, and that's it, it's over. If it's true, it's already gone. A teenager managed to reach all the Brazilian cell phones. Elon Musk is talking that he doesn't trust in technology. Sometimes, there is progress, but we see people getting a lot of websites, getting platforms, and if it's going to be deep, and technology, who will take, who already understands the subject, who already knows how to be a hacker. So, Tosy, don't want to go into the Zoom area, because I know that this is a problem, but want to emphasize, how Elon Musk, maybe the person in the world, has the most difficult to talk about technology, and that's the phrase he's talking about. Well, it's time to advance, just me and Ami, who are going to be passive, then, to receive some notification for Crimea against democracy, against the electronics, because of the battery. Because it won't even get the Fred, and Gabriel will be speaking. I don't know what you do, to make some... attack. No, it's always a joke, now, because it's a joke, it's possible to fight journalistically, any subject in the country, with the responsibility, and what we do in the Gazeta, so, even, the electronic minister of the Federal Federal Government, the president of the Republic, be it for all citizens, there's a right to debate the public figures and institutions and mechanisms that work in the country to ensure that everything is in a way that respects the citizens of the people's life. That's why we also put this subject with all responsibility. Well, that's it. Thank you very much for participating. Thank you, Fred, Gabriel, Ann, especially our viewers, they are invited to make the Gazeta's signature, which is now a new promotion. You see, one real for a month, in three months, for three months, just one real for a month, it's symbolic, it's not just for you to join our team and to support our work. Thank you very much to everyone until the next time. Bye. Bye.