---
video_title: "Why you should question everything (according to philosophy) @philosophyminis"
video_id: xBNqQNMOhyw
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xBNqQNMOhyw
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Why you should question everything (according to philosophy) @philosophyminis
---
In Descartes' Meditations, he says that everybody should at least once in their life question everything that they believe because it's so easy to walk through life inheriting our beliefs. We say things that our parents said. We will repost stuff that our friends have posted. And so a lot of our beliefs are given to us. They are implanted in our heads. And so what Descartes says is

that we should occasionally throw all of those beliefs out. Because Descartes says that it might be that one, two, three, or many of our beliefs are corrupt. Because when you're growing up, so many of your beliefs are given to you. When you're 5 years old, you do what your parents say. But when you are older, you have a sense of rationality.

You have your adult critical thinking abilities. So it's now that you can assess your beliefs. This isn't easy. In fact, Descartes himself says it is often difficult to challenge your own beliefs on this universal scale, what's called radical doubt. But we need to do it because if we don't do it, then we can't be sure that we don't ourselves hold these beliefs which are indoctrinated.

And we can't be sure that we don't hold these beliefs which are unquestioned and possibly wrong. And the other thing is to reconsider our relationships with other people. That's our social media algorithms are very good at throwing us into these echo chambers. And the worry is that we are replicating that in real life. That we surround ourselves only with yes-men and people who are ideologically pure. The people who agree with us on

everything. And what philosophy is saying is that we should have people in our friendship group, people around us who genuinely believe other things. If you are pro-war, find somebody who is anti-war. If you are an atheist, find a believer. If you are a vegan, find a meat-eater, and so on. Don't occupy

real-life echo chambers because if you do that, you'll never be able to challenge your own beliefs, and you can never be sure that those beliefs are true, right, and good.