---
video_title: "The richest thing you will ever own | Giulia Enders"
video_id: misZqGOStII
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=misZqGOStII
video_date: 2026-08-12T16:06:47+00:00
video_description: |
  The richest thing you will ever own | Giulia Enders
---
Since we live in a time where it's become really noisy and loud from the outside, this sometimes dictates to how we see ourselves or how we think we should feel about ourselves, our bodies, our lives a bit too much, I think. So, let me put a counterweight here. Let's weigh it up. Let's look at the numbers. If you would try to rebuild a body and you would really, really try like using human cells, getting them in all the right shapes and tiny blood vessels and very delicate nerve fibers, you could easily end up at a sum about, you know, 11 trillion dollars.

And just a brain is one of that. So, there's all these structures and look at this value. That is like the 10 most valuable companies that we have at the stock market at the moment. That is all the buildings in New York City or all the buildings in London. And if you want to be a bit more like fine about it, it's all the artwork that we know that's there on the market to sell.

So, what does that tell us? There is this value of the outer world and all these things they scream at us to be or not to be, but there's also the value of this live, earthy world that has perfected its ways for millions of years and that we luckily are part of. And sometimes I see my patients in the hospital when they're really sick or maybe even at the end of their lives realizing that they've had this valuable body, this wonderful body, sometimes making mistakes, but really having them able to be alive through this delicate and ingenious thing. And now it will soon be gone and they realize its value all of a sudden and they realize how they've ignored it or not really tried to understand it or cooperate more lovingly. And when I see this, it's very touching and I'm grateful that I witness this a little bit earlier in my life and I want other people to feel this and notice and incorporate a little bit earlier in their lives as well.