---
video_title: "The key to better conversations | Charles Duhigg"
video_id: sfe0mExhnEg
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sfe0mExhnEg
video_date: 2026-08-07T16:07:01+00:00
video_description: |
  The key to better conversations | Charles Duhigg
---
We've all been in those conversations where it feels like it's like two ships passing in the night, right? I'm talking about one thing, you're talking about a different thing, and like even though we're talking to each other, it doesn't actually feel like we're connected. It doesn't feel like we're actually hearing each other. That's usually because the what's this really about conversation, the practical conversation, just hasn't occurred. And so the question is, how do we prompt it? How do we make that happen?

Well, as researchers have looked at this, they found there's a couple of different ways. If you're a teacher, one of the things that you learned is that if a student come comes up to you and they have something important they want to talk about, you should start that conversation by saying, "Do you want to be helped? Do you want to be hugged? Or do you want to be heard?" And anyone who's watching who has like a young child at home, next time they want to talk to you, just ask them this question. Do you want to be

helped, hugged, or heard? And what you'll find is that they know exactly what they want. They'll tell you what they need. Now, the thing is that for those of us in professional environments, if we go into work and we ask one of our co-workers, "Do you want to be helped, hugged, or heard?" it's not going to go over well, right? They're going to call

HR. You're not allowed to hug people or ask if they want to hug in a in a workplace setting. And so, what researchers have found is that we have to ask another kind of question. And it's the asking of the question that is the skill that helps us figure out what this conversation is about. Now, not all questions are created equal, though.

Some questions are what are known as shallow questions. They're questions just about "How's your day? What's going on with you? Where'd you park this morning?" But there's another kind of question known as a deep question.

And a deep question is something that asks about my values or my beliefs or my experiences. But it's as simple as if you meet someone who's, for instance, a doctor, instead of asking them, "Oh, you know, uh what hospital do you work at?" you can ask them, "Oh, you know, what what made you decide to go to medical school?" That second question That second question is inviting them to talk about who they are. And so, one of the most critical skills for the practical conversation, for the what are we really talking about conversation, to become a consistent super-communicator, is to ask deep questions. And these deep

questions, they surround us all the time if we know to look for them.