---
video_title: "Comedian Margaret Cho meets the person she used to be"
video_id: SlKZx1YYNkY
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlKZx1YYNkY
video_date: 2026-07-30T13:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Trigger Warning: Graphic mentions of self-harm and suicide.
  
  We made this video in partnership with Unlikely Collaborators. 
  
  Become a Big Think member to unlock expert classes, premium print issues, exclusive events and more: https://bigthink.com/membership/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=yt_desc
  
  Subscribe to Big Think on YouTube ► https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg?sub_confirmation=1
  
  Born in the U.S. and taken to Korea after her father’s deportation, comedian Margaret Cho grew up between cultures, experienced sexual assault at a young age, and came of age in her parents’ gay bookstore during the AIDS crisis, where loss and public rhetoric left a lasting mark. Cho’s comedy career started at age 15, and she later became the star of the ’90s sitcom All-American Girl, where she faced intense industry pressure around her body and public image. Years later, she began confronting the belief she had carried since childhood: that she was unwanted and not enough.
  
  As humans, we’re shaped by our genetics, as well as our life experiences. They influence how we see the world — and how we engage with the people around us. That unique lens is called a Perception Box™, and each of us lives inside our own. We can’t escape it. But we can expand it by questioning assumptions and challenging our perceptions.
  
  At Big Think, we’ve partnered with Unlikely Collaborators to ask better questions. Perception Box™ is a content series grounded in science that explores what becomes possible when we let go of our limiting beliefs and open our minds to a new reality.
  
  Explore the Perception Box series hub ► https://bigthink.com/perception-box/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=youtube_description
  
  
  Read the video transcript ► https://bigthink.com/videos/comedian-margaret-cho-meets-the-person-she-used-to-be/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=youtube_description
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  
  Go Deeper with Big Think:
  
  ►Become a Big Think Youtube Member
  Get exclusive classes and early, ad-free access to new releases without leaving Youtube. https://www.youtube.com/@bigthink/membership/
  
  ►Become a Big Think Web Member
  Get the entire Big Think Class library, premium print issues, live events, and more.
  https://bigthink.com/membership/ 
  
  ►Subscribe to Big Think on Substack
  Get all of your favorite Big Think content delivered to your inbox. 
  https://bigthinkmedia.substack.com/subscribe/ 
  
  ►Listen to Big Think Interviews on Spotify
  Insights from the world's biggest thinkers, now as a podcast
  https://open.spotify.com/show/7KRYoRD1NdF2aoQcBMyPlb
---
- Go ahead and call it. - Interview AB Mark.

- So Margaret, this show is called The Me I Used To Be. - Yeah, our second guest tonight is a very, very talented woman. Say hello, please, to Margaret Cho. - It's about looking back at your life. - Oh my God.

- Not just what happened, but how those moments shaped what you believed about the world, about people, and about yourself. We call this your Perception Box, and as you look at these images and clips - - Oh no, I don't know. - all we want is your real, honest take on what you thought back then. - Do you ever get sad? - Oh, of course, I do, Big Bird.

- What it meant to you, how you see it now, and why. - Thank you very much. - Are you ready to start? - Yes.

- Let's bring up the lights, please. How did it feel to see clips of your life played back to you? - Well, like a lot of the younger clips of me as a standup comedian, you hear my voice is like so high. - Maybe someday...

I could be an extra on MASH.

- Everything kind of was lifted at the end like it was a question. Like I think I used to say, "Do you know what I mean?" Like at every juncture, say, "You know what I mean?" Because I couldn't sit there in the statement of what I was saying alone without agreement or without assurance. And a lot of the younger me was very concerned with a feeling of being out of place, out of time, being unlovable, being unwanted, being not needed.

You know, maybe my father getting deported and us having to leave this country, that sort of, that original wound. That one of the first photographs of me and my father, that was right when he got deported. My father was deported when I was born, and he actually took me back to Korea with him. My mother stayed behind and she was in America, so we had been separated, and I think that was very tragic.

And then, also, growing up in a gay bookstore in the middle of the AIDS crisis and losing all of the people around me. And the rhetoric is pushing this idea that gay people brought this amongst themselves. That mentality combined with the death around us, you feel like we are unwanted on the Earth, you know, so there's just something about that that I think has stayed with me. But yeah, so all of those feelings of like, the very core unlovability, unwanted, undesired, that's always there.

- Come down to the front microphone, Margaret.

- Sam. - We don't have all night, Margaret. - Sam. Oh my God. - Margaret.

- With Sam there, I'm probably about 15. And I was a comedian so early in life and so committed to that career already as a very young teenager that no matter what I had endured, whether that was rape and sexual assault as a very, very young age, having something happen with my body that was, like, really uncomfortable and terrifying,

and all of the trauma there. The one thing that was good was that I was a comedian. - She's a snick. - She's snacky-wacky. - You remember.

- Yeah. - Hey, how about this? - Yeah. What?

- It's a place of power. It's a place of safety. These are safety if you are being watched by an audience. There's people that can protect you because everybody is enjoying what you're doing. I was kind of consumed by that.

The trauma from my childhood sort of probably did not take full effect until much later in life. - And what did you notice later in life in the way that it manifested? - I think what I now realize was there was a continual need to escape from all feeling. If I had an emotion or like some kind of reaction to something, emotionally, I would just, I want to like get rid of it. Because you can't feel like anything good can happen in this body.

So the prison is in the body of like sensation and emotion kind of wrapped up in shame and fear around it. Like even your shoulders would go up and you would just want to protect yourself from the memory.

I was sort of caught up in drinking and doing a lot of drugs, partying a lot to remove the sensation. I mean, even comedy is a deflection of emotion. Like even a joke is like a way to distract and cause a commotion over here so nobody actually has to look at what's happening inside. - You don't think I should move in with him, do you? - I have confidence that you'll do what is right.

- Based on what? - Oh, my skin is great. I mean, I look so good. You just don't appreciate it when you're in that age. Like I didn't appreciate it.

Like I thought I was ugly. I thought I was fat. I thought I was just so unattractive. It's really too bad. - Where do you think that inner voice came from, that voice that was so critical?

- I don't think it was mine. I mean, that was like the main story that was being, not just that I was telling myself, but was being told to me, that people on the show were making it clear that if I didn't lose weight, we couldn't continue. The perception of Asian women in general, like if you were an Asian woman, you were supposed to be petite, you were supposed to be quiet, you were supposed to be like this exotic flower. And I'm definitely a flower, but I'm a nightclub, crass, rotten comedian. Like I'm nasty. Like I'm about that.

Like I'm not made for 8 pm family hour television. I never was. It's a hard thing when you're trying to conform and there's no way to do it. It took everything in me. - You know, I used to have a television show, All American Girl, which unfortunately has been canceled.

Sort of sad. I know, I panicked when I heard it. I'm like a worrier. I'm one of those people that just worry about everything. When I heard my show got canceled, I had nightmares.

You know, I saw myself on late night TV going, "Well, when I first called Dionne Psychic Friends..." - In my 40s, my addictions were just as powerful as I was as a person, and it was really controlling me. So, for me, oddly, my suicide attempt is actually like not the worst thing that I've feel I've been through.

That's just kind of like one of those things where it's like, "Well, yeah, but I mean," like, I don't even really count it as like suicide because I was so high and so drunk. I hung myself in my shower curtain rod, and the shower curtains started bending, the rods are bending and I'm like, "Oh, shit, I'm too fat to kill myself." So I got down, I'm like, "I'll try again when I reach my goal weight." Fat joke. But there's no way that I could have pulled out of that on my own.

You know, the way that I got sober is I went to treatment and I stayed in a facility for 22 months.

- Now that you're sober, do you think you feel those things more intensely because there's nothing numbing you? - I don't know. Like I think what it is, is that I have to completely accept and confront all of these demons every day. There's no avoidance anymore. So when you have to head-on face something like sexual abuse and you see it as part of your life and it doesn't destroy everything, you know, that I could endure something as, like, damaging and disgusting, yet somehow take what I've learned from it and keep growing, you know, that's powerful.

It's an emotional kind of a triumph, but at the same time, it's like, "Of course, she's going to do it. She's going to rise above because she does it always."

I mean, I think the beliefs that I outgrew is that I was not enough, that I couldn't handle this, that I couldn't last. None of that has turned out to be true. I always had it. It was always inherent. The truth of it was always there, but that was so hard for me to grasp that everything would be all right.

And like the high voice with the question is, what if, what if, what if, when you sort of go back to that young person questioning. - If you could go back to your younger self, what would you say to her? - I would just say, "Everything is going to be all right." That's what I love. Like I would've loved for something to say that to me in a statement that's no question to it.

Everything is going to be all right.