---
video_title: "How to debate a stupid person | Jonny Thomson"
video_id: 6xmDG2Io7vc
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6xmDG2Io7vc
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  How to debate a stupid person | Jonny Thomson
---
So, there's a great quotation which has been photo on the internet for a very long time now, from the earlier days of the internet, and it says that um debating an idiot is like playing chess with a pigeon. You can play as well as you want, but the pigeon will jump on the board, it'll crap on the pieces, and he'll go back to his flock declaring victory. When you're debating somebody who is stupid in the sense of Bonhoeffer, they don't question their own beliefs, and they are unwilling to accept any contrary position to what they actually believe. They're playing by different rules. You might approach them with facts and the most logical arguments you can possibly devise, but they will see you as an enemy. They will see you as an

other. They will see you as a kind of temptation. In Aristotle's rhetoric, he actually makes a distinction between three different types of persuading somebody, or three different ways that people often come to believe something. He talks about logos, which is rationality. It's reason, and it's using good debate and facts and evidence. He talks about ethos, which is

somebody's character, their reputation, their status, and the ability to persuade you. And he talks about pathos, which is emotions. He talks about feelings. And Aristotle, even in the ancient Greek world, this is, you know, the epitome of the rational philosopher, he is well aware that logos plays second place to your ethos and your pathos, as well. So, if we pull that up to the modern time, the same thing is at play here.

That when you are debating somebody, you may think that you are both playing by logos. That if I lay out my argument in premises to conclusion, if I lay out all of the evidence, this person is going to bow to me and say, "Well done, you are so brilliant. Your position is better, and I will believe what you are saying." And what Bonhoeffer is saying about the stupid person, the pigeon on the chessboard, is that they don't even care about the logos. They care about the ethos, they care about the pathos. And

so, you need to play according to their game if you're going to have any kind of proper debate and discussion.