---
video_title: "Why do we measure temperature? | Adam Frank"
video_id: Jh1VVxHQQBg
channel_name: "Big Think"
channel_id: UCvQECJukTDE2i6aCoMnS-Vg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jh1VVxHQQBg
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Why do we measure temperature? | Adam Frank
---
Where does the idea of degrees Celsius or Fahrenheit come from? Started with direct experience, right? Everybody has a feeling of hot and cold. And early on in science, right, in the 1600s or even earlier, they were looking for a way to formalize to find what um has been called what the philosopher Michelle Bitball calls the um the structural invariance of my and your subjective feeling of hot and cold. So then it was like, oh, we'll build a tube with some mercury in it and then we'll stick that in water and we'll see how far it rises.

Right? That was the beginning of thermometry. But then people realized like, well, for certain things, like if I'm trying to find where on the thermometer does water boil, at what point they realize like, well, if you're at the bottom of a of a valley, you're going to get a different answer than if you're at the top of a mountain. So that led to people had to start thinking about thermodynamics. And then people realized well you know what is stuff made of? It's made of atoms. There was a

whole new idea in abstraction called atoms at the time. And so then thermodynamics turned in statistical mechanics. But you go outside and the thermometer is saying like hey it's you know 50° but actually you're freezing because of the windchill. So science then adds this other level of description and abstraction that says oh well the wind is blowing so now we have to have a correction to our other abstraction which is degrees. And so what you had was this ascending spiral of abstraction. Very powerful. But by

the end of it, what happened was my experience of hot and cold is just kind of an illusion. And so the important thing to remember here is not that these aren't these abstractions aren't powerful. They are and they need an account but that experience is their root and experience comes