---
video_title: "I've Never Seen Floods Like This in China"
video_id: 1p3HLxlbgGI
channel_name: "China Uncensored"
channel_id: UCgFP46yVT-GG4o1TgXn-04Q
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1p3HLxlbgGI
video_date: 2026-08-14T19:45:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://surfshark.com/uncensored and use code uncensored at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark!
  
  The CCP is training murder puppies to help it invade Taiwan. Meanwhile, record-breaking floods destroy parts of Eastern China, while Elon Musk says you ought to visit!
  
  Operation Honey Pot: Paste this emoji 🍯 in your comment below.
  
  Want to go deeper than YouTube will let us? Check out our website: https://chinauncensored.tv
  
  Get the free China Uncensored weekly newsletter:
  https://chinauncensored.substack.com
  
  Download the China Uncensored mobile app:
  iOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chinauncensored-app/id6740281341
  Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tv.uscreen.chinauncensored
  
  ______________________________
  Subscribe for updates:
  youtube.com/ChinaUncensored?sub_confirmation=1
  
  ______________________________
  X: https://x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  Rumble: https://rumble.com/c/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
  ______________________________
  © All Rights Reserved.
---
China built [music] a robot army that can charge a beach under fire. Taiwan built a plan to shut off its own phones on purpose. And China is hit with flooding so massive, it breaks [music] a 150-year-old record. That and more on this week's China news headlines. Welcome to China Uncensored. I'm Matt

Gnaizda, filling in today for Chris Chappell, who's off doing kung fu training in preparation for the upcoming war with China. And we'd all better prepare because the robot dogs are coming. And not the cute, friendly ones like Mega Man's pet Rush. Yes, China has spent the last 2 years building an army of robot dogs. Chinese state media calls them robot wolves, but I'm going to call them what they actually are, murder puppies.

You ain't going to be seeing these during a China Uncensored mental health break. Some carry explosives. Some carry assault rifles. Some models are even made for export, like this one that made its debut at a Saudi defense expo back in February. There's even a model for export that carries anti-tank missiles.

So, what exactly is China planning on doing with this army of murder puppies? Well, based on an October 2025 CCTV documentary featuring an amphibious landing drill explicitly staged as a Taiwan invasion scenario, lots of things. Including hauling ammunition up the beach behind the troops, and one rifle-armed model literally escorts paratroopers in. Ready to shoot the bad guys, i.e. the Taiwanese. Defense

analysts say the program has kept developing through 2026, with robots now assigned specific recon, attack, and support roles. Way to ruin robot dogs, China. These don't even have a cool spring launcher like Rush. And while China's military is busy planning how to kill Taiwanese people with murder puppies, Taiwanese people have been preparing for the worst-case scenario, briefly losing internet access. Seriously, this week Taiwan throttled mobile data in a wartime communications drill to gauge how citizens might react if it happened during an invasion for realsies.

War really is hell. You can take our lives, but please don't take our cat memes. Taiwan is in the middle of its annual Han Kuang exercise. And as part of an urban resilience exercise, the government deliberately throttled mobile data down to about 1% of normal speed. That's just 256 kilobits per second, which is what I was getting with America Online back in 1998. Diabolical.

The drill lasted for half an hour and it only affected mobile data. Not affected were phone calls, texting, emergency lines, and home Wi-Fi. The idea was just to simulate what mobile internet access might look like when China knocks out infrastructure during an invasion. And also what life under communism looks like. And when people do get back online, I hope they're using Surfshark. I use

Surfshark to protect my identity and keep my devices from being hacked. Yes, this is a sponsored bit, but I really do use Surfshark all the time. I'll tell you why in a bit. So, while the PLA's amphibious assault team has been preparing its murder puppies, the PLA Aerospace Force has been busy launching rockets. Hopefully not brush jets.

On Monday, a Long March 7A rocket lifted off from Hainan carrying a communication satellite. About 85 seconds later, it exploded, destroying the rocket, the satellite, and the career of whoever was in charge. It's the second time a Long March rocket has blown up in midair. And it's China's fourth orbital launch failure just this year. This one's from April.

But I'm an optimist, so I like to think of it as their fourth failure this year so far. This week's explosion also forced another delay. The second launch of China's Zhuque-3, a private Chinese company's first attempt at a reusable rocket. The first launch was um not exactly a staggering success, but that's the kind of rocket China needs if it ever wants to compete with SpaceX on cost per launch. Rocket scientist Elon Musk tweeted, "Rockets are insanely hard and I hope they have a speedy recovery." Aw, that's

really sweet of him. And given the shape of rockets, I assume him saying they're really hard was an immature joke. Also from Elon Musk, who coincidentally has a $2 billion Tesla factory in Shanghai, he tweeted this week that China is awesome. I strongly encourage people to visit. Gosh, you know what? If

a trillionaire genius inventor guy says I should visit China, maybe I should consider it.

>> [singing] >> Nah. And this would have been a terrible week to visit anyway because Shanghai and other parts of Eastern China were underwater thanks to yet another massive typhoon. How would you like to be this guy? Too bad their murder puppies can't turn into Rush Marine. Yes, I'm obsessed with Mega Man. No, I won't apologize for

it. This latest storm was called Typhoon Dolphin, like the fish. That's right. I just called dolphins fish. Suck it, marine biologists.

Typhoon Dolphin made landfall in Zhejiang province on Sunday with sustained winds of over 90 mph. By 8:00 the next morning, Shanghai's weather station had logged 12.4 inches of rain in 24 hours. That's the heaviest single day of rain the city has ever recorded since the station started keeping records in 1873 during the Qing Dynasty. In some places it was even worse.

The city of Wenling got more than 16 inches of rain, as well as this thing. Chinese state media said they'd evacuated hundreds of thousands of people across the region, but officials also claimed no one had died, which I totally believe. But there's another disaster that's really much worse than some silly old typhoon. Misinformation. Which is basically a typhoon that never ends.

Fortunately, the Chinese government is on it. Why fix your crappy infrastructure when you can penalize netizens for fabricating and spreading flood-related rumors? They accused one man of using AI to fake an official safety notice. They accused others of inventing school closure announcements or exaggerating the casualty count. It's obviously zero. Why are you doubting the

official narrative? Now, I don't know if those specific accusations are fair or not, but it does remind me of that episode we did on floods just 5 weeks ago where CCTV posted this notice saying reports of dam collapses are false and have caused public panic. And guess what? Those dams had in fact collapsed. Which, and I'm no expert on human behavior or anything, I assume was what actually caused the panic. The whole imminent death thing.

And the people who posted about it actually helped to warn others. Arrest them. Anyway, I'm just glad I didn't take Elon Musk's advice to visit China. And now it's time for a China Uncensored mental health break. >> [music] >> Moving on.

Besides Musk, you know who else just doesn't seem to get what the CCP is doing? Most of the UK government. A UK court has allowed plans for the Chinese super embassy in London to advance. The story is like Limp Bizkit. Every time you think they're done, they pop up yet again. The site of the embassy covers

around 5 acres in the middle of London. It's the site of the former Royal Mint and sits next to the Tower of London. A lot of Britons are upset about the embassy, and locals filed a lawsuit to stop it. They cited a bunch of reasons, including the risk of terrorist attacks, more targeting of Chinese dissidents, and increased fire risk. Basically, come on.

The court rejected those claims, saying there wasn't enough evidence those problems would affect the plaintiffs personally. To which I say, come on. The court did not actually look at whether it's an overall wise decision to allow a Chinese mega embassy in the middle of central freaking London. Because there's a much bigger problem that has nothing to do with the local residents who sued. According to plans obtained by the Telegraph, Beijing planned to construct a concealed chamber among 208 secret rooms underneath the embassy, which would be close to sensitive underground communications cables. So, I'm pretty sure China

doesn't just want the embassy to help them process visas and hold cultural events. They want to use it to stage the world's largest real-life game of Dig Dug. Yep, that's the only reason they're doing this. But, former Prime Minister Keir Starmer completely ignored all this and approved the embassy in January this year. Right before he visited China. He probably

thought that would be a nice gesture of goodwill. But, it was really a gesture of stupidity. And not just because the embassy is going to be a massive spy base controlled by a country that has explicit plans to destroy the UK, but also because approving it gave away the UK's leverage at the negotiating table. And now the embassy construction is set to move forward. But, there may still be more legal challenges before it can be completed. At least I hope so, for the

sake of every British citizen, so we never have to hear this story pop up again. Though, I wouldn't mind seeing Limp Bizkit live. I hear they put on a good show. But look, I don't want to rag too hard on the UK for letting China spy on them. Is what I'd be saying if it weren't for this next story.

Spy cameras on UK Navy drones secretly sent data to China. As an American, I'm so embarrassed we used to be part of such a stupid country. The spy cameras in question were on the K3 Scout. It's a stealth speedboat used by Britain's Special Boat Service. These commandos are so secretive, most Brits couldn't find their headquarters on a map. That makes it considerably more

embarrassing to discover that their brand new $16 million spyboat fleet has been quietly sending data to China. The spy cameras were built using Chinese components that can send, {quote} heartbeat signals to an IP address in China confirming they are online and working even when the boats are switched off. So, how did the UK's Ministry of Defense respond? Basically, nothing to see here. They claimed China didn't get any sensitive data. No, no, the boats were

just quietly checking in with a Chinese server while they were preparing for special forces missions in the Persian Gulf. But, you know, everything's fine. Meanwhile, the manufacturer of the boats, Kraken Technology Group, said the cameras met security regulations and blamed the third-party camera supplier who gave assurances about security. Assurances that turned out to be wrong. I mean, couldn't you just have one of your tech guys check them first?

Then again, this is the same country cool with building a dig dug embassy in the middle of London. So, common sense is probably too much to ask. In response to the breach, which is no one's fault and totally didn't send any important information to China, the UK's Ministry of Defense was forced to cut off all internet connectivity from their spyboats cameras. And now opposition lawmakers are demanding Britain audit all its military hardware for hidden Chinese components, which is probably a good idea. Which makes me doubtful they'll actually do it.

But, you know who does have their cameras turned on? The Philippines. In August of 2025, a Chinese Navy ship and a Chinese Coast Guard ship were harassing a smaller Filipino Coast Guard boat, and they collided. Not with the Filipino boat, but with each other. For a year, China kept quiet about this embarrassing self-own.

But, we haven't. Just look at these idiots. Then, on August 6th of this year, China's People's Armed Police announced four posthumous martyr awards, and among them were two Coast Guard officers who had died in that collision. They received first-class merit citations. China didn't issue an apology or public explanation of how they died.

Obviously, that would be too embarrassing. They just issued medals a year later burying them inside a routine awards announcement. The sad thing is, the two young men died for something totally pointless. They died because their commanders had screwed up when ordering two Chinese ships to intimidate a much smaller country ship. So, yes, while this was funny, it was also sad. Like a clown getting

pancreatic cancer. This is just a taste of what the CCP will do to its own soldiers when they attack Taiwan. It'll throw them into a meat grinder with no regard for individual lives. The CCP probably thinks this will help them achieve their goals, but I'm not so sure the Chinese people will tolerate it, especially if they see the footage, which will never not show. You know, now's about the time China's top leaders could really use a beach vacation. Specifically, a trip to a

summer beach resort in Beidaihe with China's top leaders. Every summer, China's top leadership disappears to Beidaihe for a closed-door retreat, although the CCP never officially confirms this happens. This year's retreat began around August 3rd. Nobody's published a confirmed account of what's discussed at the top level since 2003. My guess is that it includes discussions on how to invade Taiwan, how to destroy America, which CCP members to purge next, and the annual bikini contest. Uh

this is one time I'm glad China censored something. But according to an unnamed Taiwanese official who spoke to the Taipei Times, there's another thing on the docket. The CCP plans to launch a 1-year rectification movement to crack down on the three impure kinds of people. Those three include people with impure thoughts, i.e. who are disloyal

to Xi Jinping, impure organization, which is people who form factions or cliques, and impure behavior, which includes anyone who is pro-US. Now this is of course according to a source that wanted to stay anonymous, so make of that what you will. And I make it out to be very dangerous because I'm all three of those impure kinds of people. I compare Xi Jinping to a forbidden fictional bear. I'm part of a clique.

And I'm definitely pro-US in the sense of stopping the CCP from murdering everyone, especially with those murder puppets. So not only should I not visit China, but I should probably be extra careful when I'm browsing the internet. Because every time I go online, everything I do is potentially compromised if I'm not careful, at least more careful than British special forces. That's why I've been using Surfshark for more than 7 years because they keep my internet activity private and secure. That's especially important when I travel. A lot of cafes, public spaces,

and even hotels have Wi-Fi that's not secure. It would be easy for hackers to read my emails or see my banking password. But when I use Surfshark, I'm protected. And Surfshark's email scam checker immediately lets me know if any of my emails are potential scams. And do you know about webcam hacking?

That's malware that lets remote users turn on and look through your webcam, And it's now the second most common type of malware sold on the dark web. Scary stuff. But Surfshark also protects me from that by locking down my webcam entirely. So, if you want to be protected when you go online, I recommend Surfshark. With one subscription, you can run it on as many of your devices as you want, including your computer, phone, TV, even your Xbox. And if you don't like it, there's

a 30-day money-back guarantee. So, be like me and use Surfshark. Go to surfshark.com/uncensored and use the code uncensored to get up to 4 months extra. The link is in the description below. Once again, I'm Matt

Gnaizda. Thanks for watching China Uncensored. Except for the bikini part, which should have been censored.