---
video_title: "Chinese People Are DESPERATE!"
video_id: UXBaP_vCiKc
channel_name: "China Uncensored"
channel_id: UCgFP46yVT-GG4o1TgXn-04Q
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UXBaP_vCiKc
video_date: 2026-04-03T16:22:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Please support China Uncensored! I need just 1000 more subscribers on https://chinauncensored.tv
  Operation Honey Pot: Paste this emoji 🍯 in your comment below.
  Chinese people are desperate as the economy crashes. In their desperation, another "revenge on society" attack occurred in Beijing, where a man drove a bulldozer through a crowd...
  
  Get the free China Uncensored weekly newsletter:
  https://chinauncensored.substack.com
  
  Download the China Uncensored mobile app:
  iOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chinauncensored-app/id6740281341
  Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tv.uscreen.chinauncensored
  
  ______________________________
  Subscribe for updates:
  youtube.com/ChinaUncensored?sub_confirmation=1
  
  ______________________________
  X: https://x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  Rumble: https://rumble.com/c/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
  ______________________________
  © All Rights Reserved.
---
Taiwan’s opposition looks set to meet with Xi Jinping! Another “revenge on society” attack bulldozes through the Chinese capital! And a pair of Chinese siblings are charged with putting a bomb in a US base. That and more on this week’s China news headlines. Welcome to China Uncensored, I’m Chris Chappell.

You’re about to learn some things that YouTube doesn’t want you to know. Because they’re constantly unsubscribing our viewers without informing them. Or at least that’s what a lot of you are saying. Again. And Again. And Again.

And here’s how YouTube auto-completed a search for China Uncensored. What on earth is china uncle goose?! “Quack” That’s probably not what you were searching for. Well, maybe you, Greg.

Anyway, stick around to the end, and I’ll show you how to fight YouTube’s suppression. So let’s begin with a couple of updates. First on the list: the Chagos Islands! For newcomers to the show, the Chagos Islands currently belong to the United Kingdom, but… UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer… Has been working on a deal to hand them over to… the Chinese Communist Party-friendly government of Mauritius, which is totally right next door…1300 miles away! But now, The deal has been dealt a major blow as a British Indian Ocean Territory judge has ruled that the Chagossians have the right to live there.

This is huge on so many levels. For one, it means that the Chagossians’ legal right to return to their homeland has been reaffirmed. In February, a handful of Chagossians arrived on one of the islands and set up camp there. The British authorities issued a removal order, arguing that their presence was a threat to national security… because of the joint US-UK base on Diego Garcia, Which is rich, given that they want to give the islands to Mauritius, which looks like it’s planning to allow China to set up its own base on *that very same island.* But the Chagossians ignored the order.

Now, that removal order is dust. Hilariously, the judge even used… Starmer’s Mauritius deal as proof… that the British government believed there was no national security threat and the islands could be repopulated. But this is bigger than just that. Because the judge… “Also stated that the cost to the UK taxpayer of the Mauritius deal...could

be 51 billion pounds.” Which is much higher than the UK originally claimed. In short, the judge said to Starmer, “*your own deal* shows that your arguments are stupid.” So the Chagossians get to stay, rain or shine, and the UK’s original deal is looking more and more like exactly what it was, a pile of pro-CCP crap. And next on the list: another update!

Taiwanese opposition leader Cheng Li-wun… has accepted Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s invitation to visit the mainland! It’ll be the first such visit in over ten years! For political commentary on this, let’s go to Admiral Akbar. “It’s a trap!” Cheng, who chairs the Kuomintang, or KMT, last week expressed her desire to “build a bridge” via dialogue with the Chinese Communist Party and de-escalate tensions.

Because if there’s one thing that’s known for being constructive, it’s talks with China. And who’s better at building bridges? There’s been criticism of this position from both… Taiwan President William Lai… and her own party, which is worried this could harm its chances in district elections later this year. All of which makes sense, since the CCP has been assembling attack drone fleets within easy range of the island! So this feels like a gazelle going to talk with a cheetah and saying, “Have you tried a vegan diet?”

Chinese state-run media outlet Xinhua says the visit will take place between April 7th and 12th but didn’t say whether or not Xi personally will be meeting Cheng or where such talks would happen, but it looks like there’s a very real possibility… Cheng will get to meet with Xi before US President Trump does. And speaking of, President Trump confirmed he’ll be meeting with Xi in Beijing next month, between May 14th and 15th. Obviously, the Iran war delayed things a bit, and no doubt Trump wants to arrive in China having defanged another CCP friend. Both the White House and the CCP have welcomed the news and stressed the need for talks and respect. Though Xi Jinping and Donald Trump are known for being respectful as much as Beethoven was known for being a good listener.

Of course, China has other problems closer to home—like the so-called “revenge on society” attacks. Which is basically people being so upset at the country’s slowing economy that they turn to mass-casualty violence! As an American, should I consider this cultural appropriation? This time, a bulldozer slammed into Da Han Ji Grand Market in Beijing. Several people were injured and a number of vendors either lost their stalls or experienced significant damage. But the total extent of the damage isn’t

clear. And you know what else isn’t clear? What happened to the attacker. Because the Chinese Communist Party heavily censored news about the incident. So we’ll either find out more details a long time from now…or never find out at all. Is it

ironic that an attack involving a bulldozer just paved the way for more CCP censorship? And now, onto some news about failing Chinese tech, which shouldn’t be surprising. Passengers got stranded in moving traffic after a robotaxi outage in China’s Wuhan. At least it’s not the worst news ever to come out of Wuhan. Officially, they called the incident a… “system malfunction”.

Though you might call the whole idea of China pumping out millions of poorly made self-driving cars a “system malfunction.” The malfunctioning cars were Apollo Go robotaxis, operated by Baidu, which is China’s knockoff version of Google. This incident seems to be the first of its kind in China, though I doubt it will be the last. Luckily, nobody was reported injured, but many of these vehicles were just left stranded. In the middle of the highway. And caused accidents. Baidu hasn’t commented on the incident.

They already operate some of these same kinds of self-driving cars in the UAE, and they have plans to expand in Britain and Switzerland. This is what the CCP might call win-win mutual cooperation. Where China wins by selling cars overseas, and also wins by creating potential chaos in other countries. And still on the subject of failing Chinese tech, A video showing a Wenjie vehicle colliding with a young child while in so-called intelligent driving mode has been circulating online. And when I say “young child,” I mean, a toddler.

That’s uhhh, that’s bad press! Apparently, the CCP agrees, since, reportedly, netizens who forwarded the video online received calls from the police… and were required to delete the videos and sign guarantee letters saying they wouldn’t publicize this “false information,” which is a Chinese government expression meaning “the truth.” The victim is recovering and Harmony Intelligent Mobility, which is behind these cars, says that the vehicle didn’t have any issues that could’ve caused the accident. Do they realize that sounds worse? If it didn’t have any issues, then this wasn’t an accident, it was intentional, and the robot vs humanity war has begun.

Meanwhile, a Philippine WWII-era landing navy ship, narrowly avoided a collision during Chinese frigate harassment in the South China Sea. Looks like everything in China is crashing this week…not least of all, the economy, common sense, and respect for human life! I’m just kidding. Those last three things crashed waaaay before this week. This happened near… the Spratly Islands… where the PLA has been intimidating Philippine forces in their own waters while the global media is distracted by the Middle East.

Although this has been happening for many years before that. I’ve been covering this since three hairstyles ago . Those were good times. The Chinese guided-missile frigate was accused by the Philippines of making unsafe and unprofessional maneuvers, like being *this close* to the Philippines ship! No, that is not normal.

Philippine sailors managed to adjust their course and prevent a crash, but this probably isn’t the last time something like this is gonna happen. And it explains why they were able to avoid catastrophe: they have a lot of experience dealing with China’s stupid. And now on to the Iran war. According to the FBI , two siblings – a brother and sister – have been charged after an IED was found at Macdill Air Force Base in Florida, Which just so happens to be home to CENTCOM and US Special Operations Command, which are running the Iran offensive. The sister, Ann Mary Zheng, has been taken into custody as an accessory and for tampering with evidence.

But the primary suspect, her brother, Alen Zheng, who has been charged with explosives offenses, is currently in China. The motive is unclear, and the FBI is still investigating the two siblings, but it kind of looks so far like maybe China tried helping its friends in Iran by striking the US on its home soil. There’s only one way to put a stop to this: talks! And bridge building! Because that’s always worked so well before. Good luck, Cheng Li-wun .

On top of that, China’s top chipmaker, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC... Has reportedly supplied chipmaking tech to Iran’s military! Two anonymous officials in the Trump Administration pointed out that SMIC, which was sanctioned by Washington for ties to the PLA, started sending chipmaking tools to the Islamic Republic a year ago, Which means that chips made with this tech have probably ended up in the weapons Iran has been firing at the US forces, Israel, and…pretty much everyone else within range.

And one of the officials says they don’t think these shipments have stopped. On top of that, there are suspicions that this collaboration also included technical training for Iranians on making these products! None of which should be surprising to you, my wonderful fans, who have been watching the show and knew exactly what was going on between Iran and China. But even as China is quietly supporting the Islamic Republic, China and Pakistan have issued a five-point plan for an immediate ceasefire in the war on Iran… After the foreign ministers of China and Pakistan recently met in Beijing. Interestingly, the plan seems to reject Iran’s call for… charging fees in exchange for passing through the Strait of Hormuz!

Because China wants to save money- er, I mean lives. Yup, saving lives.And even though Iran offered passage in exchange for doing business in yuan, both Pakistan and China called for normal passage to be restored. Talk about getting thrown under the bus! Or, I guess oil tanker.

The plan also called for peace talks… …and a comprehensive framework modeled on multilateralism and the UN Charter. You know, the one that both the CCP and Islamic Republic violate in so many ways! Like vehicles that refuse to pay a fee and don’t want to get blown up in the Strait of Hormuz, this plan probably isn’t going anywhere. But there is one CCP plan that is finally working: Getting Shen Yun performances axed over bomb threats. In Toronto.

Because of course this happened in Canada. The Shen Yun Performing Arts dance troop, which showcases “China before communism” and is associated with… the Falun Gong spiritual practice, Gets bomb threats sent to the venues where they perform constantly. But local law enforcement generally find the threats to be non-credible, and the shows almost always go on, as they must. This time was exactly the same. The threat was deemed non-credible. Only the venue,

The Four Seasons Centre in Toronto, gave in. Right before the show was supposed to start! And they didn’t just cancel one show. They cancelled all five Shen Yun Toronto shows. Which is an absolutely fantastic way to make sure that the bomb threats keep coming. And finally,

on to Hong Kong. Police there can now demand phone and computer passwords under the amended national security law. Thank goodness I live in America, where the government can’t force me to tell them my pass code is 1234… dang it, now I need to change it. The Chinese Communist Party claims the law is meant to crack down on extremism. But really, it just solidifies its hold over the city and further erodes its democracy.

You know… extremism.Refusing to hand over these passwords can lead to a year behind bars and a fine of almost $13,000 dollars! The amended law also allows customs officers to seize any items they deem to be of “seditious intention.” Of course, the Hong Kong government is calling these reports… “fake and misleading” and denies claims that police can just demand passwords from anyone on the street. But this is the CCP we’re talking about! If you trust them, well… let’s go to Admiral Akbar.

“It’s a trap!” So before the Hong Kong government seizes your money for made-up reasons, give China Uncensored your money for good reasons! Unlike Hong Kong, we’re not funded by the CCP. We’re funded by viewers like you. Which is why I want you to become an official member of my China Uncensored 50-Cent Army, which you can do by simply going to ChinaUncensored.tv and clicking that orange button to subscribe.

And when you join me, you’ll get awesome stuff! Like exclusive episodes... livestreams....

and a vibrant chat community But you don’t do it for the awesome stuff. You do it for the feels. Because your support helps us fight YouTube censorship. Pay our studio bills. Hire great researchers and editors. And stand up to the CCP.

We need 3,000 subscribers to stay afloat. We have 1,870 so far. We’re more than halfway there! So if you’ve been on the fence about supporting us, now’s the time. Again, go to ChinaUncensored.tv. Click this button or the link below. Once again,

I’m Chris Chappell. Thanks for watching China Uncensored.