---
video_title: "Massive Landslide Destroys Chinese Border Crossing"
video_id: OfcsTuex9f8
channel_name: "China Uncensored"
channel_id: UCgFP46yVT-GG4o1TgXn-04Q
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfcsTuex9f8
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  A massive flash flood tore through Nepal from the border between Nepal and Tibet. And China has a new fake island, ready for war. That and more on this week's China news headlines.
  
  Operation Honey Pot: Paste this emoji 🍯 in your comment below.
  Help me show those TikTok ChinaMaxxers that the Chinese future we really want to be living in is one without the CCP at all. Join the China Uncensored 50 Cent Army! https://chinauncensored.tv
  
  Get the free China Uncensored weekly newsletter:
  https://chinauncensored.substack.com
  
  Download the China Uncensored mobile app:
  iOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/chinauncensored-app/id6740281341
  Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tv.uscreen.chinauncensored
  
  ______________________________
  Subscribe for updates:
  youtube.com/ChinaUncensored?sub_confirmation=1
  
  ______________________________
  X: https://x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  Rumble: https://rumble.com/c/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
  ______________________________
  © All Rights Reserved.
---
This is the most destructive thing I've seen in China. And [music] China builds a new island for invading Taiwan while China's attacks on Japan are backfiring. That more on this week's China news headlines. Welcome to China uncensored. I'm Chris Chapel. The scale of this destruction

blows my mind. On Wednesday morning, a massive flash flood tore through Nepal from the border between Nepal and Tibet. It was absolutely devastating, sweeping away buildings, bridges, vehicles, and people. Lots of people. As of this recording, 359 people have been killed and more than a thousand are missing, including 65 American tourists. The

magnitude of the damage is just incredible. Simply god level destruction. This was the biggest border crossing from China to Nepal. Now it's completely gone. The disaster has also knocked out 12% of Nepal's hydro power.

At first, the US Geological Survey blamed the floods on an earthquake high up in the mountains. But now they think it was actually a huge piece of glacier that just broke off, crashing into the valley below, causing such a massive shock. The resulting rush of rocks and ice then created a dam in a glacial lake on the Bote Koshi River. And then that dam burst and you've seen what happened. The Nepal government has ordered rescue helicopters sent to the area and they're getting people off the ground.

Meanwhile, the Chinese government has ordered staterun media to run constant coverage of China's rescue efforts. And this is what it looks like. Keep up the good work, comrades. Thank you and your efforts for taking on the biggest disaster to hit Nepal since the CCP. According to Chinese authorities, the disaster has formed a new barrier lake that is filling up quickly and could burst as well, unleashing a second flash flood. All I can say is hang in there,

everyone. China's built yet another artificial island in the South China Sea, and this one is in a disputed area with Vietnam because China won't be content until they pissed off all their neighbors like a powertripping HOA president. It's called Antelopee Reef. The Chinese took it from Vietnam by force in 1974. It looks like this. You

can only see it at low tide. Fake out. That photo was from 3 years ago. By February this year, it looked like this. Then in March, like this. And now like

this. They grow up so fast when you put all your resources into pissing off your neighbors and building up your military instead of helping your citizens in your terrible economy. The Analopee, formerly known as Reef, is now a substantial island. It's three and a half miles long with a deep water harbor, a helellipad, and a 2,000 ft key that can birth warships. Plus, it looks like they're building a 10,000 ft runway, which would be long enough for military aircraft.

The whole thing gives China 1,500 acres of new territory. Analopee Reef now ties with Mischief Reef as China's largest outpost in the South China Sea. It's nearly double the size of Woody Island, the base that currently runs a whole operation with fighter jets, missiles, deep water harbor, and may or may not have a snake in its boot. So, why is China building this new artificial island less than 200 miles from Heinen? Well, analysts point out that the northern South China Sea is exactly the water you'd want to station the military in during a fight over Taiwan. But these

people are wrong. My favorite Chinese state-run media, the Global Times, clarifies that this new multibillion dollar project is in fact for weather forecasting. Yep, you need a full-on military base to be able to predict the weather, point missiles at the sky, and demand better weather. But that's not all. The project will also further improve local residents living conditions, which is nice because until recently, the local residents were all fish. And I know some

of you might be concerned that China has built yet another artificial island capable of launching military planes and warships. But as the Global Times would remind you, according to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, China has the right to conduct construction on islands and reefs within its own territorial waters without seeking the consent or approval of any other country. So, in other words, shut up. We're doing this. Speaking of building in the South China Sea, China announced their approval this month for a new marine observation facility. It covers

what Beijing calls the Jong Sha Islands. They're describing it as a three-dimensional observation network with a sea-based dual core and land-based overall support, which sounds like science. Sweet, delicious, word salady science until you find out what the Dong Sha Islands actually are. They include an ATL that's totally underwater plus the Scarboro Shaw. That's it.

That's the group. Neither feature is actually an island, at least not yet. And since Chinese media have reminded everyone to follow the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, I'd like to remind them that in 2016, a UN tribunal rejected Beijing's claims to Scarboro Shaw based on that law of the sea. So, China is building a sea-based dual core whatever in territory it has no claim to right near the Philippines, which it would have to fight in a war over Taiwan. Probably just a coincidence. And

I'm sure once someone points this out to China, they'll promptly shut it down. After all, they wouldn't want to seem like violent, power- hungry hypocrites, right? And surely this next thing I'm about to say won't prove that to be the case. On August 21st, a Hong Kong court convicted two people of inciting subversion of state power. Their crime, organizing a candlelight vigil. Yep, set

myself up for that. One of them is Chiao Hong Tong. The other is Leech Chukang, who we interviewed in 2019. They led the group behind Hong Kong's annual June 4th vigil for the Tienman Square massacre. And they used candles, the fiends. They

could have burned somebody's thumb. Thank goodness someone arrested those arsonists. For decades, Hong Kong was the only place on Chinese soil where you could publicly remember the massacre. That all changed in 2020 with the Hong Kong National Security Law. Now, three handpicked judges with no jury have ruled that the slogan they were using and one party dictatorship amounted to an actual attempt to overthrow the state. So, words and candles, both of

which are incendiary audio arsonets. They face up to 10 years in prison. They've already served five sitting in custody waiting for the verdict. Chow, a human rights barristister, defended herself for 24 days. When the guilty verdict came down, she blew a kiss to the people in the gallery. A few days

before the ruling, in what might be her last Patreon post, she wrote, "A single ruling cannot be all that big a deal and that justice lies in the hearts of the people." Though I'm not sure how she was able to type that over her massive balls. Respect. Now to Japan, which is not under Chinese rule. For nine months, China has been attacking Japan with non-stop narrative and economic warfare, and it's backfiring. It started last November

when Prime Minister Saiakahi told the Japanese Parliament something obvious, that a Chinese attack on Taiwan could be a survival threatening situation for Japan and might justify a military response. The CCP lost it. They demanded a retraction. They told Chinese citizens not to travel to Japan. They even made political cartoons mocking Takahuchi, some of which actually made her look kind of badass. Can someone please

photoshop that so it's me? I want to hang it over my bed. The CCP also cut most of China's rare earth exports to Japan. And the CCP froze all diplomatic talks, which duh, you kind of have to do when one of your goons threatens to cut off the prime minister's head. And the first talks after that aren't our bad.

But this Monday, a group of Japanese lawmakers landed in Beijing. It was Japan's first contact with senior CCP officials since the freeze. One of them told reporters that communication had been severed in every area, and he hoped to find a clue to restarting dialogue. Sounds like a win for the CCP, right? Coercion works. Well, look at what Japan

did in the same week. On August 18th, Japan and Australia successfully tested a jointly developed laser targeting system. The same day, the two defense ministers agreed that Japan will test its hypersonic missiles in Australia. And in July, Japan set up its first central intelligence agency since World War II. Plus, Japan has started building a dechinified rare earth supply system with Australia and Brazil. Can we make

dechinified labels to put on products that weren't made in China? And Prime Minister Takahi, she hasn't retracted a single word. So, nine months of China's economic warfare. The result, Japan is arming faster, building a spy agency, and finding alternative suppliers for their critical minerals. Great pressure campaign, comrades. It's working about

as well as trying to defeat Dracula by spraying him with delicious virgin blood. Meanwhile, Taiwan's budget agency has just proposed a $35 billion defense budget, the biggest in its history. What could have possibly spurred that besides, you know, everything I've said so far in this video and over the past decade? It would be 18% higher than the current budget. It includes money for drones, missiles, and for the Coast Guard. But it's still just a proposal

and has to be passed by the legislative UN, which is currently controlled by the opposition. an opposition led by this woman. Oh, this photo is gonna come back to haunt her, especially if she becomes a ghost when China invades. I just hope it doesn't come back to haunt all of Taiwan after Xi Jinping's sudden but inevitable betrayal. Bill Gates is alarmed by the rise of AI and he has policy ideas he wants to discuss with Xi Jinping. Okay, maybe this is a good

thing. There are definitely concerns about China's state subsidized AI stealing American tech and replacing American models. So, let's see. Bill Gates believes China might agree to restricting potentially dangerous AI model releases if the US took initiative on that first. Oh, wait, never mind.

Bill Gates is stupid. It's a shame Epstein is dead. Now, who is he going to ask to get STD medication from to give to the US after screwing us over? China was set to launch a moon rocket on Monday and then they cancelled last minute. They were planning to launch the Changa 7 probe using this long march rocket. The probe was supposed to drill

for frozen water near the Shackleton crater at the moon's south pole. No other country has done that yet. NASA says it's seen the water but hasn't drilled for it. That water is a key resource for any future moon base, which is why both the US and China are looking at it. But the night before the launch, China scrubbed it. So what was their

reason? Was it the tropical storm that was developing not too far from the launch site? I mean, that would make sense. No. Apparently, it was no reason.

China Space Agency just said the mission cannot take place during this planned window this year. They didn't explain the cause or set a new date. This gives big kid who says he can do a backflip. Then when you ask him to do one, he says he doesn't feel like it energy. But it probably was the weather. I'm sure it

didn't have anything to do with that other long march rocket literally exploding in midair two weeks ago. You don't need to be a rocket scientist to see that. Though it would probably help. We all love to eat our cabbages. But you know what makes them even taste better?

Formaldahhide. On August 22nd, a Chinese blogger posted a video from a vegetable buyer station in Hob Province. It shows workers picking up cabbages one at a time and dipping the root ends into a basin of liquid before loading them onto trucks. Next to the trucks, containers are labeled formaldahhide solution. Someone on the site explains on camera that this keeps the cabbage fresh an extra two or three days. Formaldahhide is so great,

which is why I want to thank today's sponsor, Uncle Mal's formaldahhide. Perfect for your vegetable and human corpses. Disclaimer, ingesting for maldahhide can give you cancer. Sorry to break this bad news to any cannibals out there. After this video was published on Doian, China's version of Tik Tok, the government had to appear to do something. So Beijing ordered nationwide

inspections of perishable vegetables. The People's Daily ran an editorial saying the wholesalers had breached the moral bottom line. I wonder what kind of things over the past several generations could have caused Chinese people to lose their morals. Nothing to do with the CCP, of course. What makes this especially scary is that China is the world's largest producer of cabbages, and they export most of them to neighboring countries in Asia, especially Korea. South Korea imports

about 300,000 tons of Chinese kimchi a year, which is made from cabbage. Korean restaurants run on imported kimchi. Now, Korea's Food Safety Ministry has already started checking whether any of this cabbage crossed the border. Korea went through something similar in 2021 when this video went viral, showing a shirtless or possibly naked man waiting through a pit of cabbages in brown sludge. Well, it's either that or cancer. Is it wrong if I hope for the

cancer? That's why I drink Uncle Mau's formaldahhide. But far be it for me to tell you not to eat food from China because China is actually at the forefront of delicious food innovation. Today, KFC China is launching the Oreo original recipe chicken burger because why settle for cancer when you can also get diabetes? Guess Waybo post describes it as a collision of sweet and savory. So,

[snorts] what is this heavenscent ambrosia? It's a fried chicken thigh covered in mashed potatoes mixed with crushed Oreo pieces between two black Oreo flavored buns. Also, there's lettuce to make it healthy, assuming it's not the explosive diarrhea kind or the cancer kind. And this KFC Oreo collab comes to us as a double gift because Oreo has released this beauty, a cookie with cream filling that tastes like Kentucky Fried Chicken. So to all those Western influencers who talk about how China is living in the future, they were right. We just didn't ask what kind

of future. So if you're living in China and watching this right now, firstly, don't let the authorities know. Secondly, go to KFC and send me your photos of your Oreo chicken sandwich or your chicken Oreo sandwich. My email address is below. And if you're not in China or Hong Kong, now you have a way to help us subvert state power besides candles. Help me show those tick- tock

China maxers [clears throat] that the Chinese future we really want to be living in is one without the CCP at all. China Uncensored is funded almost entirely by viewers like you. I want you to become an official member of my 50 C army, which you can do by simply going to chinaunensored.tv and clicking that orange button to subscribe. And when you join me, you'll get awesome stuff. But you don't do it

for the awesome stuff. You do it because your support helps us fight YouTube censorship and stand up to the CCP. So visit chinaunensored.tv, click this button or the link below, and become a subscriber. Once again, I'm Chris Chapel. Thanks for supporting

China Uncensored.