---
video_title: "I never understood how Rutherford discovered the atomic nucleus...until now!"
video_id: ve-kdFP2ohI
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ve-kdFP2ohI
video_date: 2023-09-28
video_description: |
  In 1911, a physicist named Ernest Rutherford conducted an experiment that changed our understanding of matter forever. 
  
  This video will take you through Rutherford's famous alpha scattering experiment, which led to the discovery of the atomic nucleus.
  
  We'll explain how Rutherford and his team made their groundbreaking discovery and what it means for us today. You'll learn why atoms, the building blocks of everything around us, are mostly empty space. We'll also discuss why this discovery was so shocking and why it's not often discussed in textbooks.
  
  Whether you're studying for a science test, a teacher looking for classroom resources, or just curious about the world, this video is for you. So, if you've ever wondered about the nature of matter, or why atoms don't collapse into themselves, join us on this journey into the heart of the atom.
  
  
  ================================================
  Follow me at 
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/maheshshenoyteaches/
  ================================================
  Support me and learn more physics at the same time by enrolling in my Udemy course
  https://www.udemy.com/course/become1dkinematicsmaster/
  https://www.udemy.com/course/becomeakinematics2dmaster/
  ================================================
---
Oh, hey. I'm trying to understand why this hand does not go through this hand or why can't you walk through walls? Sounds like a silly question, right? But, once you understand the shocking consequences of the 1911 physics discovery, which are not discussed in textbook, by the way, you will gain a much better perspective of the matter around you and this question will not sound silly at all. Now, to do this right, we need to start a little bit from the beginning. We need

to go back in time in 1897. So, this is what a random physics class would look like in 1897. So, as I was saying, students, atoms are the most fundamental particles in this universe. There's nothing smaller than the atoms. You cannot divide the atoms.

Atoms means indivisible. So, write that down. Atoms cannot be further divided. This just in. J.J. Thomson has

discovered brand new negatively charged particles at least a thousand times smaller than the atom. We are calling it the electron. We believe all atoms have electrons in them. Exciting times ahead. So, as I was saying, atoms are not the most fundamental particles in this universe.

That's right. The discovery of electron by J.J. Thomson changed everything. It opened up a completely new branch of research that is figuring out what's inside the atom. You see, we already

knew that atoms are neutral, right? But, now we discovered that it has electrons, which are negatively charged particles, inside of it. This also means there must be some kind of a positively charged thing inside it as well. And they must be arranged in such a way that all their forces must cancel out because they all attract and repel. And they must be arranged in such a way that it should remain stable. And so, the big

question was, what does that arrangement look like? What does the atomic structure look like? After the discovery of electrons, a lot of people were taking a crack at it. And after a few years, Thomson came up with an idea and gave us the very first atomic model. How? Let's go back in

time. Oh my god, what a boring Christmas party. Why did I say yes to this? Should I just stayed home and worked on my atomic model? Ah, my god. Enjoying the

party, Mr. Thomson? Oh, yes, yes, yes. I'm very nice, wonderful party. That's exactly exactly what I was thinking about, yeah. And how do you like the

pudding? Oh, the pudding. Oh, that's incredible, yes. And even the plums inside that pudding, oh, that is

Now, I'm not sure if that story is true. It would be so cool if it was. But, what did Thomson find out? What What was the idea that he got? Well, he looked at the pudding and just like the pudding, he said that maybe the atom is made of a some kind of a gas of positive charge that completely fills the atom up. Just

like this just like the pudding part of that cake. And if we just had this gas of positive charge, because positive and positive would repel, then that gas would tend to expand because positive and positive repels from each other. But, what keeps it from expanding? The electrons. Just like the plums in the pudding, the electrons are placed inside the pudding of the positive charge and the forces of the electrons and the positive charge all balance in such a way the atom stays stable.

This was the plum pudding model given by J.J. Thomson. Thomson was killing it. First, the discovery of the electron.

Now, the very first atomic model, the plum pudding model. But, like with any model, it needs experimental evidence, which means we had to test the plum pudding model. Who is going to test the plum pudding model? This brings us to the star of this video. Any guesses? It's one of Thomson's

students himself. That's right. Ernest Rutherford. Rutherford took up the task of testing the plum pudding model. But, how do you do that? How do you test what's inside

an atom? Like, how does humanity come up with these things? Thomson's idea was quite straightforward, actually. Thomson said, well, if the entire atom is made of positive charge and there are electrons inside of it, then he started wondering what would happen if you were to sort of like throw a positive charge at it, another positive charge at it. Imagine a positive charge atomic size bullet at it. Thomson argued that uh

since there is equal amount of positive and negative charge, this particular thing would not experience any force. It wouldn't experience any force when it's outside. And as a result, it'll go straight in and inside as well, it wouldn't experience any force because there's positive and negative charges everywhere. And so, that means if I threw a positively charged bullet straight at an atom, it should go straight through. This was the model This was the idea that Rutherford had. And so, Rutherford's

idea was, if I can somehow shoot positively charged bullets at atoms and if they go through, if I can see that they're going straight through, then I'm done. That is a good test for the plum pudding model. But, the question was, how do you do that? This is great in theory, but how exactly do you do this? A few challenges. The first challenge is, how

do you set your target atom? Like, how do you make sure that you shoot you have one atom target? Because most of the stuff that we have is made of billions of atoms. Well, Rutherford's answer was very simple. Let's take a metal.

Metal cuz metals are very malleable. You can make very, very thin sheets out of it. Let's just hammer it and make things as thin as possible. And therefore, he actually asked one of his friends to make him a super thin gold foil for him. Gold is one of the most malleable materials on the planet. And so, his

friend made a gold foil, which apparently was few hundred atoms thick. A few hundred atoms. That's super, super thin for that time, at least. And so, yes, we don't have one atom, we'll have hundreds of atom, but that's still fine. The idea is that if they don't exert any force, the positive charge bullet should just go through. Maybe because there are

hundreds of atoms, it might have some small deviations, but that's still okay. But, most of it mostly it should go just straight through. That's the whole idea behind the plum pudding model. Okay, we have one challenge done. We have the gold foil.

The next challenge was, how do we detect that the particles have gone straight through or not? How do we detect the path? Well, for that, Rutherford's idea was to construct an apparatus like this, where you have a thin This is the thin gold foil. You're looking at it from the top now. And the whole thing was like a stadium. You have like a stadium

boundary over there. And it was coated with some kind of a chemical. I forget what that chemical is. I think it's zinc sulfide or something. But, the property of that chemical is when a positive charge or, you know, positive charges goes and hits it, at that particular spot, you would get a glow. So, for example, if

you see a glow somewhere over here, that means that that particular bullet, if it shot from here, it must have gone through like this and landed over there. On the other hand, if you see a glow somewhere over here, then we can see that if the it was shot from here, it must have hit over here, it must have gone like this. So, you can sort of think about the path over there. So, that was done. That was that.

But, the last question we might have for Rutherford is, where do we get positively charged atomic bullets? Where does Rutherford find that from? Well, let's go back in time. All set for the experiment, Rutherford? Yeah, I have everything ready except for Where am I supposed to find a positively charged atomic size bullet?

It's 1909. There's no technology over here. I don't know why I even signed up for this. Oh my god. [Music] Wait.

Why is Curie calling me? Hey, Curie. What's up? Just wanted to call you to congratulate you again for your Nobel Prize in chemistry last year. You know, the one where you worked on the alpha particles, which are like positively charged bullets coming out of radioactive substances.

Curie, I got to call you back. That's right. Rutherford had already gotten a Nobel Prize the previous year in chemistry for his groundbreaking work on radioactivity. In fact, he did a lot of research in figuring out what the alpha particles were. And he had figured out that the alpha particles are positively charged bullets. Today, we

know that alpha particles are basically helium nuclei and beta particles are actually electrons and gamma is basically photons. But, back then, what is important is that they knew that alpha particle was positively charged. And so, what What would Rutherford do now? All Rutherford had to do was use his some kind of a radium isotope, uh which is which is a source of an alpha particle. And of course, enclose that so that you have more control over the direction. You only want the alpha

particles that are coming towards the gold foil. And that's the last piece of the puzzle. So, we now have everything. We have the gold foil. We have the alpha source. We have the

alpha particle source. We have zinc sulfide all around, so we know where these alpha particles land. All we have to do is do that experiment now. And once again, let's go back in time one last time and look at this experiment done live. All right, folks. Are we all ready? We

have everything set up. We also have our predictions. Everything is supposed to go straight through. And that's obviously what's going to happen because, you know, plum pudding model is awesome. JJ Thomson is awesome.

It's obviously right. Everything is just right. I have Thomson on the speed dial as well because we know we're going to confirm it. Okay? Ready? Let us start.

Boop. There we go. There we go. All the alpha particles are going straight through. Awesome. High fives. High fives. Should

Should I call Thomson now? I think we should, right? Like I mean it's happening. It's happening. All right, let me call him.

Hey Rutherford, what's up? Wait, did you see that? Uh I'm going to call you back. Yeah, that it's just a glitch. It's just a glitch.

It's fine. It's It's fine, I think. It's It's not not a big deal. I I I Wait, there's another one. What's happening?

Wait, there's another one. And there's one more. W- This This This can't be. No. No.

This can't be. NO. NO. WHAT JUST HAPPENED? Why was Rutherford so shocked?

Well, if you go back to the experiment, we saw that most of the glow was right behind the gold foil. And this was the one that we predicted. This basically meant all the alpha particles over there went straight through. But, if you watched that that part that clip carefully, we also found some glow which was behind. This was the one that shocked Rutherford and his friends.

Because that meant that alpha particles are bouncing off of gold atoms. But you may ask, Mahesh, why is that such a huge deal? Because as a scientist, you'd probably know that experiments don't always give you the exact same observations, right? That's That's part and parcel of science. And so, maybe something like that has happened over here. We just need to

tweak our model a little bit, right? No. What this meant, which we'll understand now, was something dramatic. This meant that the plum pudding model had to be completely discarded. Not tweaked.

Not changed a little bit. Completely discarded. Why? Well, let's look at it. If the alpha particles are bouncing off like this, there must be a significant force acting on them.

And since alpha particles were known to be pretty energetic, this force needs to be pretty high. The big question was, where is this force coming from? We already saw that because the according to the plum pudding model, because everything is pretty neutral, there's no way the plum pudding model can generate that much force. And Rutherford did some back-of-the-envelope calculation. Even if you have hundreds of atoms, and even if it's not perfectly distributed, he saw that the force needed to create that kind of a bouncing off effect is billions of times stronger than what the plum pudding model can ever give you.

Billions of times stronger. That's not just a small error. That's a huge error. And that's why Rutherford was shocked. And he was trying to figure this out for another couple of years by doing multiple experiments and trying to figure out what does it all mean?

And eventually, he did figure it out. He realized that he had to throw the plum pudding model out of the window and just start from scratch. And so, what he realized was that if I need to generate that much force, there is no way that the positive charge can be distributed uniformly throughout the atom. That's just not possible. So, he He realized the only way that the alpha particles can get that much force if was if the positive charge is not distributed throughout the atom, but if it was concentrated in a very tiny space at the center of the atom.

Because then, look, the alpha particles can come very close to that positive charge. And from Coulomb's law, you probably know the closer something can come, the closer charges are, the bigger the Coulomb repulsion. And so, you can have a very strong Coulomb repulsion if and only if the all the positive charge is concentrated at the center. No electrons over there, so you feel the full brunt the full brunt full brunt full brunt of the positive charge. And there Therefore, he said that all the positive charge must be concentrated at the center, and he called it the atomic nucleus, which you're probably familiar with.

And what about the electrons? Well, you probably know how the story goes now. He compared with our planetary model. He realized that just like how the sun pulls all the What? Sun Sun pulls all the What do you call that? Planets.

Sun pulls all the planets and makes it go around it. Similarly, this positive charge will pull all the electrons and make them go around it. And the planetary model was born. And this perfectly fit the data. Because, look, because the thing is in the center, most of the times the alpha particles will not even come close to it, and therefore they will go through.

And that explained why most of the times we did see alpha particles going straight through. And then sometimes, about 1 in 20,000, we found that the alpha particles were scattered by a very large angle. And so, this alpha scattering experiment, as we call it today, is the one that led to the 1911 discovery of the planetary model and the atomic nucleus. So, the plum pudding model was discarded, poor Thomson, and the planetary model was born. The student had become the master.

But now comes the shocking consequence part. It was not a clickbait. What is a shocking consequence of this that is not discussed in our textbooks, and how is it related to what I initially talked about at the beginning of the video? Well, Rutherford was able to do a back-of-the-envelope calculation based on just Coulomb's law how small this nucleus needs to be. And you can You can see that, right? If the nucleus is too

big, it'll not be able to come very close, and you'll not be able to generate the force. So, just by looking at how much force he got, he was able to figure this out. And his back-of-the-envelope calculation showed that the nucleus needs to be at least 100,000 times smaller than the atom. And why was this so shocking, you ask? Well, first of all, my brain cannot understand these large numbers. 100,000 is too big for me. So,

what I should What we'll do is we'll scale it up. Imagine the atomic nucleus is the size of a grain of sand. By that scale, what would the atom look like? What would the atom be? Just pause and think about.

Would it be a lemon? Would it be a basketball? It would be a freaking cricket stadium. That's how small the atomic nucleus is. The entire cricket stadium, if you consider it to be the atom, the nucleus is a grain of sand.

And we already saw that electrons are incredibly tiny, incredibly massless parti- They have mass, but their mass They're very light particles. This means all the mass of the atom is mostly in the positive charge. And now, all the mass of the atom is concentrated in that tiny space, making the rest of the atom empty. Think about how empty that atom is. If you actually put it to numbers, you'll find our atom is 99.99999999999

percent empty. All atoms are this much empty. And we're made of atoms. Which means I am this much empty. You are that much empty. Everything that you

look around you is just empty space. This also means our brains are empty. And now that makes you wonder, why doesn't this empty hand go through this empty hand? Isn't that a valid question now? Why can't we walk through walls?

What gives solid matter its structure?

So, what's the answer to this? Well, patience. I promised you by the end of the video I'll give you a brand new perspective, and I've done that. Hopefully. And the Hopefully, the question that I've asked also makes sense.

Sometimes in science, actually most of the times in science, we spend a lot of time trying to figure out the right answer. But I think we get a lot of insight sometimes by trying to figure out what the right question is. And that was the hope of this particular video. Because to answer this question, we need to continue this story. Turns out Rutherford's model has some pretty significant flaws.

We need to do some more role play with a few more folks before we can answer the question exactly why this empty hand does not go through this empty hand. So, that's it for this video. I hope I was able to give you a brand new perspective. I tried to do something creative and and yeah, I just want to know how did you feel about this? Should I be making more stuff on quantum relativity and all of it? I love using high school

physics to explain all of this. So, if you really enjoy all of this stuff, please let me know in the comment section. I will see you soon. Bye.