---
video_title: "Relativistic Velocity Addition In Special Relativity (Why does relative velocity never exceed c?)"
video_id: j4JS7EEsrto
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4JS7EEsrto
video_date: 2024-02-09
video_description: |
  Head to https://squarespace.com/floatheadphysics to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code FLOATHEADPHYSICS
  
  Let's explore why relative velocities don't just add up in special relativity as we learnt in Newtonian mechanics. We will use the ideas of time dilation, length contraction, and relativity of simultaneity to intuitively derive the relativistic velocity addition formula. 
  
  This video is sponsored by squarespace
---
This video is sponsored by Squarespace, the all-in-one website building tool. A girl throws a baseball at a blistering speed of 90% the speed of light. But, she's in a train that's already moving at 87% the speed of light. So, according to Newton, wouldn't the total speed of baseball just add up and become more than the speed of light, breaking Einstein's rules? This is the question that I asked my physics teacher back in high school, and his explanation was no. That doesn't happen because speeds

don't add up, velocities don't add up just like how Newton said. Instead, to calculate relative velocity, use this formula. And if you plug in these values in this formula, you'll always find the speed to be less than the speed of light. But you see my problem with that, right? That's just a dumb formula. I

mean, I can use it to solve problems, but every time I look at a question like this, my brain keeps saying that, "Hey, that ball should be traveling faster than light. Why isn't it doing that?" And so I thought of gaining some intuition to do that, I thought like, "Let's look at the derivation of it." And when I looked at it, oh my god, it just involved so much algebra and manipulation, and I thought, "Okay, I'm never going to be able to get an intuition for this." Until now. After making Einstein and

Newton talk for months, I think I finally get it. So, by the end of this video, we're going to see why Newton's addition is wrong, how Einstein fixed it, and why relative velocities will never exceed c, all intuitively. So, if you're ready for this, let's dive in. We start by asking Newton, "Buddy, why did you even say that the velocity adds up in the first place?" Well, Newton says, "If we look at the train, and if we wait for 1 second, then in that 1 second, that ball would travel 0.9c

forward, because that's its speed. But, in that 1 second, the train also goes forward by 0.87c. So, look at the total distance that the ball has traveled. It is 0.87c + 0.97c, giving you 1.77c

in 1 second and therefore that is its speed, faster than light. Einstein says, "Well, first of all, let's just make c equal to 1. I mean, it's just so annoying to keep using the word keep saying c c over and over again. That's why physicists love units in which the velocity of light is just 1. Simple, right? But more importantly,

Newton, you made three boo-boos. First, you overlooked length contraction. Moving things shrink in the direction of motion. At 87% light speed, the train would be contracted to half its length. And therefore, you can immediately see the ball does not travel 0.9 when we

look at it, it will travel 0.9 divided by two. So, the speed is already less than what Newton expected. Now, at this point we should ask, "Well, Einstein Einstein, remember this is an intuitive derivation. How did you realize that 87% light speed, the length contraction factor will be two?" And Einstein says,

"Patience, we'll get there. But we're already beginning to see how Newton's addition is wrong, isn't it? Onto your second mistake, Newton, time dilation. Moving clocks tick slower than clocks that are at rest. At 87% light speed, the clocks will tick at half the rate, which means when 1 second is up in our clock, only 0.5 second will be her up in

her clock. That means the ball wouldn't even reach the entire 0.9 the end of the train, it somewhere halfway in between, which means time dilation further slows down the distance that we see by a factor of two, and so we get another two in the denominator, and the speed becomes even lower than what you expected. But but but Einstein, we've already considered both the length contraction and time dilation, and look, the speed of the ball is still more than one. What gives? And Einstein says,

"This takes us to the third and the final mistake that Newton made. It's though it's something that we've talked about before. It's It's the one that solves all the paradoxes. It's the ultimate reality, the relativity of simultaneity." Okay, I'm having way too much fun with this. But, the point is, if you look

inside the train, then the ball reaching the halfway mark is simultaneous with her clock reading 0.5. But, things that are simultaneous in one frame need not be simultaneous in a moving frame. In fact, from our frame, we'll find that her clock will first read 0.5, then the baseball would reach the halfway mark.

Which means, if we consider simultaneity, the ball would be moving even slower than before. But, wait a second. At this point, we can ask Einstein, "Well, Einstein, how did you know that it is this event that happens first, and then this would have happened?" Like, how did you know that? Well, Einstein says, well, his go-to method is to imagine synchronizing a couple of events. For example, let's say

we have two firecrackers, and we have a light source right in between. Then, we send photons outwards, and they will, because the light source was right in between, the photons will go and hit the firecrackers at exactly the same time. And let's say light can ignite the firecrackers. I mean, this is physics, right? So, the firecrackers would explode at exactly the same time. But,

from the moving frame, what would happen? Well, again, light is going to move out from that point at exactly the same speed in both the directions, but this time, the train is also moving forward. Therefore, what do you see? The firecracker over here bursts first. And from this, we can get an intuition for the fact that the events at the back of the train happen before the events in the front of the train. This is our

go-to method, and this would be true in general. You don't really need clocks and synchronization technique, that's just a method, but this would be true in general. And so, this means if we go back over here, events in the back are happening before the events in the front, and that's why her clock will read 0.5 before the ball even reaches the halfway mark. But, Einstein, how do we incorporate this over here? Ah, good question. Again, if

we go and look at things from her frame, then from her frame, the ball traveled 0.9 units in 1 second. Again, these two events are simultaneous, but from our frame, they're not simultaneous. Because events at the back happen first, by the time the ball reaches over here, this clock would have already gone past 1 second. In fact, if you do the math, which we will do later on, we will see that this would be about 1.78.

So, we will see that ball travel 0.9 units in not 1 second, but 1.78 seconds. Which means the relativity of simultaneity slows down that ball further by 1.78.

And so, that's its contribution. So, if you factor that in, boom, you will find that the speed of the baseball is less than the speed of light. But wait, wait, I know what you're thinking. You must be thinking You must be thinking, what if the train was going even faster? Then, wouldn't it give a little bit more boost to the baseball and make it go faster than light?

Einstein says, "Challenge accepted." Well, if we make the train's velocity now 0.98, the what about the velocity of the ball? Would it now become faster? Well, Einstein reminds us now, all these factors will become more extreme. For

example, the train will now shrink to 1/5 its length. The time dilation factor would be about five. You correctly plug those in, and you will still see that there's no way to go faster than the speed of light. Okay, wait a second. What if we don't do that? What if

instead we keep the speed of the train the same so that the length contraction time dilation is exactly the same, but if we just threw the baseball slightly faster. Now it's got to break the speed of light, right? Oh, no, because if now you make it go faster, events are more separated apart and as a result, you will now find that the relativity of simultaneity factor would be higher. So, whatever you do, if you increase this number, this number will go up and again you will find that the total velocity will still be less than C. This formula is ironclad, folks.

There's no way to go around it. And it should not be very surprising because remember the whole relativity is built on the postulate that the speed of light is a constant and it's the same in all reference frames. So, it's not surprising that nothing can travel, you know, even if you add velocities, you cannot travel faster than the speed of light. The point, however, is was to derive an expression for adding velocities that respected Einstein's postulates and we have found it. We have found it because what if we can generalize this now?

Okay. What if we What if we call this velocity U, the speed of the train U, and the velocity of the ball with respect to train V? Then look, what will be our relative velocity? What How to add velocities? It'll be U plus V divided by the length contraction factor, the time dilation factor, and the relativity of simultaneity factor.

This is how you add velocities correctly, Newton. Okay. All right. All right. But at this point, we could ask Einstein, "Well, Einstein, so far so good, but this is how far our intuition can get us, right? I mean, if you want

to get an exact expression for this, now we just have to do the algebra." And Einstein says, "No. Even for finding the exact expression, there's an elegant way to do it and it can be as intuitive as say building a website using Squarespace, the sponsor of this video. Just like with velocity edition or any physics topic for that matter, let's start from scratch. How do we build a website, a landing page?

Well, we need a domain. So, let's go to squarespace.com, click on a button which says get domain, buy the domain you want and boom. Just like that, your domain becomes active. And it comes with who is privacy for free, which is great if you want to protect our privacy, which is something we should try and do. But wait, neither

Newton nor I have any decent coding experience. I don't even know what our landing page should look like. Well, Squarespace has incredible templates that we can start with. So, we can just click on say portfolio, then find the one that looks pretty for us, customize it by clicking buttons, and in a few hours, in our rest frame of course, the page is live. But there's so much more. There's

incredible analytics to tell us about the performance. They also have great support that will unblock us if we get stuck somewhere. So, I think Squarespace truly is a one-stop solution for building any kind of website. So, if you want to check your website building intuition for free, then go to www.squarespace.com/floatheadphysics.

You can also use the promo code floatheadphysics at the checkout to save 10% on your first purchase. The link is also in the description. All right, back to the video. Okay, Einstein, show me the elegant way of looking at these things. Let's start with time dilation. Time

dilation factor is gamma. And we've derived this in a previous video. All we needed is a photon clock and a Pythagoras. Over there we saw u squared over v squared over c-squared, but here c is one, remember that. But there is more to it.

I mean, if you look at a table of values of them, you will see the same thing as we saw before. At 87% light speed, the time dilation factor is about two. 98% light speed, the time dilation factor is about five. It comes from this formula. But a more elegant way to look at this is, if you square them and add them like this, you'll always get one.

Now, that might seem like an algebraic manipulation of this, but there's something deeper going on over here. It's something It's got It's telling us something about space and time and its connection with the speed of light. And there's something we'll get back to in a future video. But this is one of the ways in which you can look at this factor. And since length contraction factor is just the same, we already have two out of the three. Both these factors, length

contraction and time dilation, is just gamma, which leaves us with the last one, the relativity of simultaneity factor. How do you figure this out, Einstein? And let me tell you folks, this is uh the most elegant way of looking at things. I've saved the last for the best, only for you because you've reached till this part of the video, so you deserve it. Okay.

So, let's go to relativity of simultaneity. And the way to look at it is, if you have two clocks or two events that are, let's say, one unit apart, and they are also moving very close to the speed of light, then we already know that the events over at the back would be ahead by the events uh ahead of the events in the front, but can you make a wild guess in this particular case, how much will this clock be ahead of compared to this clock? Just Just make a wild guess. It turns out to be ex- pretty much by one unit. This means, for example, if this clock read 0.3, this would read about 1.3.

I find it so fascinating because look, you have two events that are traveling at one, spaced apart by one, are also apart in time by one. Isn't that elegant? I mean, isn't that telling us about how space and time are conspiring together? Whoa. But we can now use this to build up a general formula.

For example, we could ask what happens if this their speeds was not one, but they were going at half the speed of light? Well, then this just happens to be half. What if they were going at 0.3 the speed of light? Well, then this just becomes 0.3.

In other words, whatever is the velocity over here, the discrepancy is just that. U. Isn't that amazing? But wait, this is for when the events are one unit apart in space. What if the events were two units apart in space?

Well, the discrepancy would be twice as big. What if the events were half as much apart? Then the discrepancy would be only half as much. So, in other words, what if the events were X units apart? Then the discrepancy would be U * X.

And by the way, I when I say X distance, I mean the proper length, the length seen from the rest frame, okay? So, if you now go inside the train, look, the two events over here are V units apart in space. And therefore, from our reference frame, they will also be UV units apart in time. Therefore, if this clock reads one, at that same moment from our frame, this clock would read one plus UV. And therefore, from our frame, the ball traveled distance V in not 1 second, but in 1 plus UV second. And that's why we

have to divide it out by 1 plus UV. And you can now see where that 1 plus UV in the original formula comes from. So, if you incorporate that, the relativity of simultaneity is just 1 plus UV. And there you have it, folks, in its full glory, the relativistic velocity addition formula, derived intuitively. Wasn't that elegant?

But I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, "Well, this is not the formula in our textbooks." And I say this, yeah, yeah, of course, of course. I mean, if you substitute for the value of gamma and just simplify it a little bit, you will get the familiar formula that you see in your textbooks. This refined version is efficient for problem solving, and that's why we find it in our textbooks.

But, for a deeper and more intuitive perspective, I find this raw version to be much better. And I think this mirrors life itself. We often seek shortcuts and efficiencies to boost our productivity, but do take a moment every now and then to appreciate the raw, unrefined experiences. For it is these that often offer the most profound insights. Until we meet again.