---
video_title: "Newton gets bored during a pandemic, revolutionises physics!"
video_id: 5AaGSuwgrW0
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5AaGSuwgrW0
video_date: 2025-07-09
video_description: |

---
We have theories for why things fall down for thousands of years. For example, Aristotle believed everything naturally tends to move towards the center of the universe which is obviously the earth. Meanwhile, Brahmagupta in ancient India used the term guruta, a Sanskrit word meaning attraction due to heaviness. So these ideas were pretty impressive for their time, but they were still pretty vague and local. For a long time, we believed the laws of the earth were completely separate from those that govern the heavens. But starting in the

1500s, all of that changed very quickly. Copernicus helped replace the earth with the sun at the center. Galileo made breakthroughs in inertia and motion, and Kepler uncovered stunningly accurate features of planetary orbits. For example, that they were ellipses, not perfect circles. At the time, these were all disconnected thoughts. They had no

broader significance. That is until a young man stuck at home because of a plague decided to do something about it. In 1665, one of the deadliest plagues swept through London, killing up to a 100,000 people, nearly 15 to 20% of the city's population. As a precaution, Cambridge decided to shut down, sending students home and halting their studies. One of those students was a young man named Isaac. Isaac Newton. For the next

couple of years, Newton was pretty much stuck at home. But free from exams and lectures, he could pursue whatever he wanted. And so he did. And what followed is arguably one of the most creative bursts in scientific history. Historians call it Newton's Anos Morabus, his years of wonder. During this time, he laid the

foundations of calculus, showed that white light was made of rainbow, and most importantly for our story, he began connecting Galileo's earthly insights with Kepler's heavenly ones. Years later, this would lead to his universal theory of gravity published in the legendary Principia.