---
video_title: "I never intuitively understood Tensors...until now!"
video_id: k2FP-T6S1x0
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k2FP-T6S1x0
video_date: 2025-05-16
video_description: |
  Support me https://patreon.com/floatheadphysics to see how I learn relativity, get sneak peaks, and early video access. 
  
  To try everything Brilliant has to offer—free—for a full 30 days, visit https://brilliant.org/FloatHeadPhysics . You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.
  
  I don't give a flux T-shirt
  https://floatheadphysics.com/products/i-dont-give-a-flux
  
  What exactly is a tensor? 
  
  Chapters: 
  00:00 What exactly are Tensors?
  01:23 Analysing conductivity in anisotropic crystals
  03:31 Is conductivity a vector? (hint: nope)
  05:00 The key idea to understand Tensors
  07:07 Rotating the co-ordinate axes (climax)
  10:48 Why are Tensors written in matrix form
  11:50 Conductivity is a rank-2 Tensor
  14:14 Rank-2 Tensors in Engineering & Astronomy 
  17:48 Rank-3 & Rank 4 Tensors in material science
  20:29 The most intuitive definition of Tensors
  
  This video is sponsored by Brilliant.org
---
In high school, I learned that physical quantities are either scalers, like temperature, which is just a number, or vectors, like velocity, which is a number and a direction. But there's a far more powerful mathematical object that shows up everywhere from engineering to material science and even astronomy. It's called a tensor. To be specific, rank two and higher tensors. But here's a question. What the heck is

a tener? Most definitions I read were pretty vague and then I learned that it is kind of like a matrix but it's better to think in terms of indices. Yeah, none of that made any intuitive sense to me until now. I went through the entire lesson on tensors by fon lectures and although he has not even defined even once what tensor is in the entire chapter by the end of it it all clicked and oh my god my mind was blown. So the goal of this video is we're going to pretend we don't know anything about tensors and start from scratch and step by step intuitively rediscover all these ideas ourselves. And if I do this right,

we might even be able to intuitively understand why some of the most complex equations of physics like the Einstein's field equations of general relativity has to be written in the language of higher order tensors, not just vectors. All right, so if you're ready for this, let's begin. So Fman, where do we start? Fman says, "Mah, let's start with a very familiar problem, ohms law." And I'm like, "That's awesome. I love Ohm's law.

It states that current through a wire will always be proportional to the voltage across it." Which means current I is proportional to voltage V. But Fman says, "Mahes, let's look at the vector version in that instead of current, we use current density J, which is basically current per unit area, and instead of voltage, we have electric field. So we get J proportional to E. We obviously won't show that it's the same form as I proportional to V. But it

makes intuitive sense, right? I mean through an area if you put a stronger electric field, the electrons over there will experience a stronger force. They will drift faster giving you a stronger current. So makes sense, right? And the proportionality constant over here is called conductivity. It's a measure of

how good a conductor a material is. If the number is higher, it's a better conductor. But now Fman asks me a question, the central question of this entire video. You ready? He asks Mahes, how many numbers do you need to fully describe conductivity? I'm like one, you just

need one number, right? I mean, if the conductivity is three units, for example, it means there will be three units of current density per unit electric field. So Fman, you just need one number. And Fman smirks and says, "Mahes, that would be true if the conducting property was the same in all the direction. But what if you have a crystal like graphite which conducts very nicely along its layers, but it conducts very poorly across the layers.

Conductivity in graphite depends on the direction. We call them anisotropic crystals. So what if you have an anisotropic crystal over here and for simplicity, let's say along the horizontal the material conducts very well. But let's say along the vertical it doesn't conduct at all. So putting electric field along the horizontal you get nice current density but you put an electric field along the vertical you get nothing. Now Mahes do you think one

number is enough to fully describe conductivity in such a material. I'm like ooh interesting this is getting complicated but nothing we cannot handle. I mean we can think in terms of components right? So here's what I say. All right let's use two numbers one for X and one for Y. So in this case for

example along the X the conductivity might be three units but along the Y the conductivity would be zero. So I stand corrected Fman you're right. I need two numbers to fully represent conductivity and that is in two dimensions. Of course if we're in three dimensions we have three axes. So we would need three numbers to fully represent conductivity in general in such an isizotopic crystals. But Fman asks Mahesh are you

sure? Okay, let's double check. What if we put an electric field in some arbitrary direction? Are these two numbers enough to fully calculate the current density in this material? Let's see. If I were

to decompose the electric field along the X and Y direction, I can now use this number to calculate the current density along the X direction. And then I can use this number to calculate the current density along the Y direction. In this case, it's zero. And then I can add those two together vectorally to find the total current density. And I can do this for any arbitrary direction of electric field. So yes, Fineman, I am

sure I need only two numbers in 2D, of course, three numbers in 3D to fully represent conductivity in any material. But Fineman says, Mahesh, nope, you need more numbers here. You just got lucky. What do you mean? Fman says, Mahesh, for a second, forget about coordinate axis and everything and just look at what we got. we see that even

though the current current density is proportional to electric field they are not in the same direction and I'm like that is interesting because till now every single vector equation I have seen the left hand side vector was exactly in the same direction as the right hand side vector for example consider f= ma f and a will always be in the same direction p= mv where p is the momentum v is the velocity p and v always in the same direction and So now for the very first time in my life I am seeing an equation a vector equation in which the left hand side vector and the right hand side vector are not aligned. That is truly interesting fineman. Thank you for noting that. But it still does not explain why you said I got lucky. So here's what Fineman says.

All right this is the interesting part. Okay so in general in this particular crystal electric field and current density are not aligned isn't it? But along the horizontal they are aligned. That is a special case. And we chose our xaxis to be in that special direction.

Similarly along the y direction when you put an electric field you get no current density. That's another special case over here. And our yaxis just happened to be along that direction. So Fman says Mesh, do you see what has happened? We accidentally chose our coordinate axes to align with these very special cases. That's why things got super

simplified and it feels like only two numbers are enough. But if you want to analyze this in general, we have to take an arbitrary coordinate axis. So what say we rotate the coordinate axis to some arbitrary angle and then reanalyze situation. I'm like that is interesting very interesting let's do this so let's rotate this coordinate axis and align it with some arbitrary direction let's align it with this electric field direction itself so this is our x and this is our y and fman says look mahesh look now even though the electric field is along the x-axis the current density is not aligned so do you think one number sigma x is enough to calculate how much current density you get. What do you think? This is it

folks. This is the moment. Please, please pause. Really pause and try to answer that question. How many numbers do you need to calculate current density due to the electric field in just the x direction? Try to figure this out

yourself because this is the moment to rediscover it. I promise you it's the best feeling that you will get. It's the best way to learn and it's one of the reasons why I love Brilliant, who's sponsoring this video. Why do I recommend Brilliant? Because just like in this particular video, it helps you intuitively rediscover ideas using a hands-on approach, but not just in math or physics, also in programming, data, and even AI. And you can get started for

free. Take their course on vectors for example. It starts off like a puzzle and then using concrete interactive examples, you start visualizing things and pretty soon you'll start mastering all the basic operations, transformations, and eventually you even start applying it. And because they have bite-siz lessons, you can learn on the go and level up even with 15 to 20 minutes a day. I have been urging my students to use Brilliant from way before they started sponsoring me. So,

you can try everything that Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days by going to www.billiant.org/fladphysics. The link is also in the description or you can just scan this QR code somewhere. And of course, you also get a 20% off on their annual premium subscription if you choose to buy it. Okay, back to the

video. So, how do we represent conductivity? Now, J is not aligned along E. We can decompose J along the X and Y direction giving us JX and JY. So this means look the electric field component along the X direction gives us both JX and JY. It gives us two components of

current density. This is the key. Therefore I would need two numbers. one number to represent how much I get JX due to EX. So we can write it this way. But I also need another number to

calculate how much I get JY from EX. So look, I need two numbers over here. And earlier because J was a line along EX, there was only JX. There was no JY. That's why we missed it. That's why that

number was zero and it was hiding. This is what Fineman meant when he said I got lucky. We didn't see it. So we need two numbers just to calculate J from EX. And the same thing of course applies to the Y component of the electric field here as well. We need

two comp two numbers to calculate J. one number to tell us how much you get JX from EY and another number to tell us how much we get JY from EY. So look in total we need four numbers to fully describe conductivity not two four and by the way this itself took me some time to wrap my head around it because a lot is going on over here so at first if you don't get it please don't be disheartened this is not easy stuff mull over it it'll make sense but the whole idea of why we need four numbers is if I want to calculate jx I need to add contributions from both ex and ey. That's why I need two numbers for JX. And similarly, I need two numbers for JY. And that's why I need

total of four numbers, not two. But wait a second. Wait a second. Do you see? Do you see what I'm seeing? This looks like matrix

multiplication. If we write it nicely in terms of matrix, it's a perfect matrix multiplication. Oh, this is why we write conductivity as matrix. It makes perfect sense now. But now Fman asks, Mahes, this is in two dimensions. How many

numbers would you need for three dimensions? Again, you great idea to pause and try to do this in your head. We have three components of current density to calculate. But for each component of current density, we need three numbers because there are three contributions that we need to add. And therefore we need three * three nine numbers. And that's exactly what we see

in three dimensions. We need nine numbers to fully represent conductivity. And now we can do what mathematicians love to do. Abstract the hell out of it. What about in n dimensions? Never mind

what those n dimensions are. But how many numbers would we need if we had n dimensions? Now I have n components to calculate. For each of them, I need n numbers to add up their contributions, which mean I need a total of n² numbers. So there we have it.

Conductivity in its full glory is a mathematical object that requires n² numbers in n dimensions. But fon, what do we call this thing? And are there other physical quantities like this? Well, Fman says, "Mahes, think of it this way." Remember scalars like energy and mass, you think of them as something that only has magnitude, one number, right? But think

of it this way. Regardless of the number of dimensions, you always need one number to represent a scalar. Which means we could say that scalars require n to the power zero numbers where n is the number of dimensions, right? Okay. Similarly, think about vectors. You

might think of vectors as something that has magnitude direction. But another way to think about it is in terms of the fact that a vector requires two numbers in 2D, one for each component, three numbers in 3D. So in n dimensions it requires n numbers. In other words, in n dimensions it requires n power one numbers. And so from that we can see conductivity is just an extension of that. Oh my god. This is this is it.

This is why it actually makes sense to club them all together and under a same bucket and call them all something. We call them tenszers. And so scalars are just rank zero tensors. Vectors are rank one tensor. And so we're going to call conductivity as rank two tensors.

But of course our next question is are there more quantities that are ranked two tensors and how do we again rediscover them? Fman says Mahesh if you go back what made conductivity a rank to tensor in the first place? Well it all boiled down to one and only one thing that J was proportional to E but not necessarily aligned. If it was always in the same direction, conductivity would have been a scalar. But the fact that it's not necessarily always aligned forced conductivity to be a rank two tensor. So the next natural question for

us is are there other places where you have vectors proportional to each other but not necessarily aligned. Well, if you look at say a satellite going around the earth, you probably know that it has some momentum and momentum is mass times velocity. But when it comes to momentum, momentum and velocity are always aligned. They're always in the same direction, which is the reason why mass is a scalar. Okay.

But what about its rotational versions? We can write rotational momentum or angular momentum equals rotational inertia times angular velocity. Now are is angular velocity, angular momentum and angular velocity also always aligned? Let's see. You can spin them in multiple directions. For example, you

can spin a satellite this way or you can spin a satellite that way. And the key thing is that moment of inertia is not the same along both, you know, along these directions, moment of inertia changes with the axis of rotation. Okay. Therefore, even if the satellite was spinning with the exact same angular velocity in both these directions, because the moment of inertias are different, the angular momentum would be different. In one case, it will be higher, in the other case it'll be lower. Which means if you add them up

together, look, the angular momentum will not be in the same direction as angular velocity in general. This means boom, moment of inertia has to be a rank two tensor. I mean, right now I don't really have the mental capacity to actually go through it and work out all the components, but it's the same as J and E. The fact that they're not aligned means the proportionality constant has to be a rank two tensor. Isn't that amazing? Next up, look at this dam.

There are a ton of forces that are acting on it. But if you take a cross-sectional area then in general if this area is small enough the force acting on a cross-sectional area can be written to be proportional to the area. That makes sense right? Bigger the area more the forces. And the proportionality constant is called the stress. Now comes

the big question. Are forces and area always aligned? Well let's see. Well area is always you know prop perpendicular to the surface that we choose. And what about the net force?

Well, there are multiple forces acting over here. So, the net force can be in any direction, right? It depends on the context and you know what and all what and all are forcing it. So, clearly force and area net force and area need not be in the same direction. And therefore, boom, stress has to be a rank two tensor. The same

idea. So, we have so many examples of rank two tensor. We have conductivity, moment of inertia, stress and so on. They all follow the same pattern. They map two vectors. They're proportional to

each other, but they're not necessarily aligned in general. They have to be a rank two tensor. But let's not stop here. Let's go one step further. Finan, can we intuitively think about even higher rank tensor like rank three and rank four?

Where would they appear? Well, when you squeeze certain crystals, charges get separated producing an electric field. We are literally squeezing electricity out of crystals. We call this effect the piso electric effect. And to a good degree, the electric field generated is proportional to how much you squeeze it or proportional to how much stress you're putting on this. So, we can write

electric field is proportional to the stress applied. And of course the proportionality constant is called the pisoelectric constant. But now think about this. Look at this equation. On the left hand side you have a vector which is a rank one tensor. But on the

right hand side you have a rank two tensor. We just saw stress is a rank two tensor. So for the very first time I'm now looking at an equation that maps a rank two tensor to a rank one tensor or a vector. And so now what kind of an object should pisoelectric constant should be? Think about it. It needs to

take in n² values and for each of those n square values spit out n values meaning it needs n to the power three numbers to fully represent it in n dimensions. Piso electric constant is a rank three tensor and we can go even further if you think about elasticity. You probably know for any material the deformation produced depends on how much stress you put on it. In other words, the strain is proportional to the stress you put. And again, the proportionality constant this time is the elastic constant. And guess

what? Just like stress, strain is also a rank two tensor. Meaning in this equation, we are mapping one rank two tensor to another rank two tensor. So the proportionality constant over here, it needs to take in n square inputs and for each input, it needs to spit out n² values of strain. So this would be a rank four tensor beast. Look at this point I have

absolutely no mental capacity to dig into any of this in detail. Okay. But what's interesting is that even without defining tensors, we haven't even defined what tensors are. We haven't talked about it notations or anything like that. Just from raw intuition, we are able to rediscover all these amazing ideas. And that's what I find

fascinating about Fineman's approach. Amazing Fineman, take a bow. But now I think it's time to finally answer our central question. What the heck is a tensor? Can we define it? Yes, we can. You can think of tensor

as a machine. A machine that takes in one vector or a tensor and outputs another vector or a tensor. And the rank of this machine depends on the ranks of the input and the output. But it's not just any machine. It's not just any function. It follows two powerful rules.

The first one is that the output should not depend on how you draw your coordinate axis. I mean if you change the coordinate axis the tensor components will change but it should change in such a way that the output should remain the same. It should you should get the same output for the given input right? because nature does not care how you draw your lines. And second, we noticed something across all our examples. We had

proportionalities. So it was a linear relationship, but not with just one number, but with multiple components. That's what a tenzor is. It gives you linear relationships between multiple components. A multi-linear machine. So

putting it all together, tensors are multilinear machines that relate one tensor or a vector to another tensor or a vector. And the output is independent of how you choose to draw your coordinate axis. Finally, can we now use everything that we've learned to answer why Einstein's field equations must use tensors? Well, think about how could you encode spac-time curvature? Well, here's a way to think about it. If I move a

little bit along the x direction for example, I need to think about how much the space stretches or squeezes in the y direction. But I should also think about how much the space stretches or squeezes in the z direction independently. It can also stretch and squeeze in the time direction which of course I haven't shown over here. So look for each component each direction that I'm moving I need multiple numbers to take care of curvature. In other words, I definitely need a tensor. That's why equations of general

relativity involving space-time curvature require tensors. In fact, they use rank two tensors. But the last thing I want to say over here is that we have barely scratched the surface. This is just one way to think about tensors. There's just so much more to talk about and there's so much more to explore when it comes to space-time curvature like rigid tensor, the metric tensor, Einstein's tensor and even the rank four beast, the reman curvature tensor. And I think we can

intuitively figure all of this out. So let me know if you want to get into all of that interesting stuff. Um, I'll make future videos on that. So that's it. Bye.