---
video_title: "I finally understood why matter curves spacetime! (My mind is blown)"
video_id: qKZvAwcXceE
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKZvAwcXceE
video_date: 2025-06-27
video_description: |
  Click this link https://boot.dev/?promo=FLOATHEADPHYSICS and use my code   FLOATHEADPHYSICS  to get 25% off your first payment for boot.dev.
  
  Support me https://patreon.com/floatheadphysics to see how I learn relativity, get sneak peaks, and early video access. 
  
  Link to buy the 'I don't give a flux T-shirt'
  https://floatheadphysics.com/products/i-dont-give-a-flux
  
  Why do we think matter curves spacetime. How can we intuitively arrive at that conclusion ourselves? 
  
  The full sky dive video. (Disclaimer: It's about 8 years old and full of my cringe expressions!)
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DvhN-Ey36I8
  
  
  
  
  
  This video was sponsored by boot.dev
---
Newton says gravity is a physical force pulling on that satellite. But Ein says, uh-uh, gravity isn't a physical force at all. It's just an artifact of Earth curving the spaceime around it. And that satellite, it's moving straight through that curved spaceime. But my question is why? Why did Einstein

and humanity conclude that? I mean, it's cool to repeat quotes like matter tells space-time how to curve and spacetime tells matter how to move. But science is not about understanding facts. It's about sharpening our thinking. So my question was, how can I intuitively go from Newton's model to Einstein's idea of curved spacetime? What is the exact

step-by-step thought process? And I think I finally understand it, and I'm super excited to share that with you. So in this video, we're going to start by pretending we don't know anything about spac-time curvature. And by the end of it, hopefully we would have rediscovered all of it intuitively. So if you're ready for this, let's begin. We have

theories for why things fall down for thousands of years. For example, Aristotle believed everything naturally tends to move towards the center of the universe, which is obviously the earth. Meanwhile, Brahmagupta in ancient India used the term guruta, a Sanskrit word meaning attraction due to heaviness. That's pretty cool if you ask me. So these ideas were pretty impressive for their time, but they were still pretty vague and local. For a long

time, we believed the laws of the earth were completely separate from those that govern the heavens. But starting in the 1500s, all of that changed very quickly. Copernicus helped replace the earth with the sun at the center. Galileo made breakthroughs in inertia and motion, and Kepler uncovered stunningly accurate features of planetary orbits. for example, that they were ellipses, not perfect circles. At the time, these were

all disconnected thoughts. They had no broader significance. That is until a young man stuck at home because of a plague, decided to do something about it. In 1665, one of the deadliest plagues swept through London, killing up to a 100,000 people, nearly 15 to 20% of the city's population. As a precaution, Cambridge decided to shut down, sending students home and halting their studies.

One of those students was a young man named Isaac. Isaac Newton. For the next couple of years, Newton was pretty much stuck at home. But free from exams and lectures, he could pursue whatever he wanted. And so he did. And what followed

is arguably one of the most creative bursts in scientific history. Historians call it Newton's Anos Morabilus. his years of wonder. During this time, he laid the foundations of calculus, showed that white light was made of rainbow, and most importantly for our story, he began connecting Galileo's earthly insights with Kepler's heavenly ones. Years later, this would lead to his universal theory of gravity published in the legendary Principia.

And here's that book, Principia. Okay, actually it's a copy of it translated in English. But if we go to volume three here, you can see that he proposes that the planets experience a force towards the sun that drops as 1 / r². I find it fascinating because this is the copy of the original text that for the very first time wrote it down in the history. Oh my god, that's amazing, right?

Anyways, and over here you can see he proposes that that force must be proportional to their masses. In other words, the law of gravity we all learned in school. And this was radical because for the very first time, we had a single unified rule, a rule that can be applied both to the Earth and the heavens. It didn't just explain orbits or how things fell, but also the tides predicted the return of Haley's comet and a couple of centuries later even helped discover a brand new planet, Neptune, purely from the math. But it didn't stop there. As our

instruments got sharper and sharper, our cosmic reach got deeper and deeper. And Newton's laws passed every single test. from binary stars to galaxies themselves. Every observation just kept confirming Newton's law of gravity. That is until a young man who had already shattered the old ideas of space and time started doing some experiments in his head.

That man was Albert Einstein. At first, he found some cracks in the universal law. But as he went deeper, the whole framework shattered. But Einstein, why? What made you look at one of the most successful unified model of the universe with so much observational evidence and then say, "Nope, Newton must be wrong.

Gravity is not really a force. It's just it's just a manifestation of four-dimensional space-time curvature." I mean, that's inconceivable. And Ein says, "Mah, it's kind of like solving a puzzle one piece at a time only to eventually realize you've actually learned backend coding like on boot.dev, Dave, the sponsor of this video. If you go to its homepage,

boot.deave claims to be the most captivating, most addictive way to learn backend programming. So, obviously, I was a little intrigued and decided to check it out. And what I found was unlike traditional courses, there was no long lectures or theories. You just read a short instruction and you start coding immediately. And I think it's honestly

amazing for learning because it's hands-on, interactive, and you get immediate feedback. It checks all my boxes for what makes a good curriculum. And the way the lessons are built, they teach one small thing at a time and slowly build up. I love that. And of course, if you get stuck, there's this AI chatbot called Boots who will nudge you in the right direction. And bonus,

the whole thing is gamified. You earn experience points, level up, and unlock achievements. But wait a second, why learn backend development in the first place, you ask? Well, because you can make serious money. Top back-end developers earn over 150K annually. And

I think that's why Boot puts so much thought into helping you build that skill. But if you don't believe me, don't take my word for it. You can get started for free just by following this link. The link is also in the description. And if you do eventually decide to get the full access, then you can use my code floated physics to get 25% off on your first payment. Okay,

happy coding. Back to the video. In 1905, Einstein published a series of papers that would redefine physics forever. It was Einstein's anis Morabilus. One of those led to special relativity. It replaced Newton's old

ideas of space and time and predicted that mass is just confined energy which led the groundwork for particle accelerators helped understand how stars shine and helped humanity harness nuclear power. But there was a problem. Special relativity and Newton's law of gravity were incompatible. But why? Well, Einstein says according to special relativity, no information can travel faster than light. But

Newton's gravity is instantaneous. So if the sun were to disappear, then the gravitational force on Earth would instantly be zero and it would immediately feel the change. This violates special relativity. Okay, Einstein, but can't we just modify Newton's laws to fit special relativity? And Ein says he thought that too until he had the happiest thought of his life.

Imagining a man falling to his death. Why Einstein? Why is that the happiest thought of your life? And Einstein says, "Mes consider this. When you're in an airplane and that airplane is taking off, it accelerates forward. You feel

pressed backwards." Right? Similarly, when you're in a car taking a turn, you accelerate inwards, but you get thrown outwards, which means every time you accelerate in a particular direction, you feel a jolt in the opposite direction, right? And I'm like, yeah, that makes sense. Okay. Now, he asks,

Mah, but what about when you're falling? Because when you're falling, according to Newton, you are accelerating down at 9.8 m/s squared. But Mahesh, do you feel it? Like in the other cases, even here, do you feel a jolt in the opposite direction?

I remember skydiving a few years ago in Switzerland. It was honestly pretty amazing experience. But when I jumped, the moment I jumped from the plane, I felt nothing. No jolts. Totally weightless for a few seconds until the air started pushing.

And by the way, this is also the reason why I puke later on because of the zerog. But the point is, no, Einstein, I didn't feel a jolt. So I don't think you feel a jolt when you're falling. And Einstein asks, why not? I mean, you are accelerating down. So why don't you feel

an opposite jolt like we feel in the other cases? And I'm like, wait, I know the answer to this. If you go back to the airplane for example, the seat pushes and accelerates my body first, but my head wants to stay in place due to inertia. Remember, a head at rest tends to stay at rest until my neck pulls it along. So, there is a lag and that's why I feel a backward jolt. And

the same thing happens with a car. When I take a turn, the friction between my butt and the seat pulls my lower body first towards the center. But my head tends to move in the straight line because of its inertia until my neck starts pulling along with it. And that's why again because of that lag, I feel an outward push, an outward jolt. And fun fact, this is the reason why F1 drivers have enormous neck muscles. They need it

to withstand huge turning forces. But coming back to the point Einstein, gravity is different. While I'm falling, if I were to drop an apple, that apple would fall along with me because gravity accelerates every single thing at the same rate regardless of its mass. Close to Earth, that is about 9.8 m/s squared. So when I'm

falling, every single part of my body is accelerated at the exact same time and the same rate, 9.8 m/s squared. That's why there is no lag, Einstein. And that's why I don't feel an opposite jolt. And that's why I feel weightless, but the acceleration is there. Come on,

Einstein. This is high school stuff. But then Einstein asks Mo, why does the force of gravity accelerate everything at the same rate regardless of its mass or material or anything? And I'm like, because of Newton's second law. The net force acting on my body while I'm falling is the force of gravity. And

that equals according to Newton's second law mass times my acceleration. So look my mass cancels out and as a result the acceleration due to gravity is independent of the mass of the falling body. And Ein says this is the crux of the problem. Mahes this mass let's call it your gravitational charge because it decides how much gravity you feel. And this mass, let's call it your inertial mass because it decides how much inertia you have, how much you resist acceleration. These two are completely

independent and different quantities altogether. And yet for some reason they happen to be the same. Why? That's not how other forces work. For example, how much electric force you feel depends upon how much charge you have, which is very different from your inertia. How

much magnetic force you feel depends on something called your spin. Again, very different from inertia. And that's how you know all other forces are. For every other force, there's a different kind of charge that decides how much force you feel. And yet, for gravity, that charge, gravitational charge, just happens to be your inertial mass.

Why? Isn't that a little suspicious? And I'm like, wow, Einstein. They say that science is about asking the right questions. And this is at its best. And

this is why I love to understand the thinking process rather than the facts themselves. So this is amazing. Anyways, Einstein is still waiting for an answer. And so I'm like, maybe that's just how it is. Maybe there is no deeper explanation for that. And Einstein says,

Mahesh, let's find a deeper explanation for that. Okay, what do we know so far? When you're falling, you don't feel your acceleration. In fact, if you were to close your eyes, you wouldn't know if you're falling on Earth or you are in some deep intergalactic space just floating over there. And if you had an accelerometer with you, it wouldn't even detect any acceleration. Okay? Now,

instead of coming up with some convoluted explanation like your gravitational charge just happens to be the same as inertial mass and that's why you don't feel it but it's there, why don't we come up with the most straightforward answer? If you don't feel your acceleration and you can't detect it, maybe it's not there. Which means maybe when you're falling, you're not accelerating at all. And I'm like, uh, hello. There's gravitational force pulling on me. And Einstein said, okay,

maybe there is no force of gravity. And I'm like, wait, there is no force of gravity acting on me. I'm just floating there. Then why do I hit the ground? And Ein's like, maybe you don't hit the ground. Maybe it's the ground that's

accelerating up at 9.8 m/s squared and it hits you. At first, I'm like, come on, Einstein. That's crazy. And Ein says maybe so, but it answers a nagging question because it's the ground that's really accelerating up at 9.8 m/s

squared. From the point of view of the ground, someone standing on the ground, it gives you the illusion that gravity accelerates everything down at 9.8 m/s squared. Isn't that a much simpler explanation, Mahes? So, this is where the whole gravity must be an illusion, you know, perspective comes from. And this reminds me of

something called the Akams razor which says often when you're trying to solve a problem the simplest explanation is the best. And again you can see that's what Einstein's that's what Einstein is doing over here. But wait a second Einstein if there is no such thing as gravity it's all an illusion. Why am I feeling my weight right now? Because Mahesh the ground and the chair that you're sitting on right now that's accelerating you up at 9.8 8 m/s squared. And just like in

the airplane when you were accelerated forward, you felt an opposite jolt due to the lag and inertia. Right now, because you're being accelerated up, due to your inertia, you're feeling a downward jolt. And that downward jolt is what makes you feel like you have weight. There is no real force of gravity. What you feel as gravity is just inertia. And

this is why the gravitational charge in the Newton's formula of gravity just happens to be your inertial mass because there was no gravity. What you've been feeling all along is just your inertia. It's no different than the opposite jolt you feel when your airplane is taking off. It's the same thing. It's just that the jolt is downwards and that makes you feel like you have weight.

That is insane. That is crazy. So, just to be clear, Newton says the ground is inertial, not accelerating, and it's the falling things that are accelerating. But Einstein says, "Nope, it's the falling things that are inertial, not accelerating. It's the ground that's accelerating upwards, making everything stick to the ground." But wait a second,

both models seem plausible. How do we know who's right? Well, we need an experiment to tell them apart and there isn't any. So, both points of view are equally valid and therefore Einstein calls it the equivalence principle. So, his big claim is that being in an accelerated frame is indistinguishable from being in a gravitational field. This seems to be an

extension to Galileo's relativity. Gallio figured out that rest and constant velocity motions are the same thing. Look from different points of view. Now Einstein takes it to the next step and says maybe acceleration and gravity are also the same thing just two different points of view. So he's trying to generalize things. But hang on

Einstein your equivalence principle has a big problem. First of all earth is round. So if uh the the ground is accelerating up in all the directions, shouldn't the earth be expanding? But there's another issue. Falling things also stretch and squeeze. It's

just that for small things, we don't notice it. But if there was something huge like an asteroid hurling towards the earth, it would stretch significantly. Sometimes it can even tear the asteroid apart. And it's not just the asteroids. Even the Earth and Moon fall towards each other and they're pretty big. So they too significantly

stretch. and squeeze and on earth this effect is what gives rise to tides. That's why we call this effect the tidal effect. Newton's model where you consider gravity as a physical force can explain this beautifully. Gravity gets stronger closer to the earth. So if you've got a

big object like an asteroid, this part feels slightly stronger pull compared to this one. So this part accelerates more than the part behind. And look, that's what stretches the asteroid. And the math works out and it nails the explanation for tides. But Einstein, you say there is no such thing as gravitational force. According to you,

this asteroid is just floating. Absolutely no forces acting on any parts of it. No accelerations at all. So how do you explain the stretching? You can't explain the title forces, buddy. Your

equivalence principle breaks. What you got to say about that? And Ein says, "Yeah, you're right. This means that the equivalence principle is only valid locally in small regions where gravity can be assumed to be uniform. But in large regions where the gravitational field varies, it cannot explain the title effects. And so I struggled with

this problem for nearly 5 years. But then I had a breakthrough. I found a way to explain how an asteroid can stretch even without any forces acting on it. How how is that even possible? Einstein and Ein says, "Maysh, first let's bring this problem into my territory. Let's

draw a space-time diagram for that." Now, a quick refresher. If a small rock is at rest in space, it's still moving in time. So, its graph is straight and vertical. We call this the rock's world line. If the rock's moving at a constant

velocity, it's still straight but tilted. So look, inertial motion always give you straight world lines. But if the rock accelerates, that world line curves. More the acceleration, more curved the world lines. So remember in spacetime straight world lines are inertial non- accelerating. And curved world lines are

accelerating. Okay. Now according to Newton, we can consider the ground to be inertial. Let's assume it to be at rest. and the falling person is accelerating towards the ground. So their world line curves

but in Einstein's model the falling person is inertial say at rest. So their world line is straight and it's the ground that's accelerating up. So far so good. But what if a big asteroid is falling? In Newton's model, the front of the asteroid being closer feels stronger gravity. So its world line curves more

than the back. That's why it stretches. This is the tidal force. And we know this is a fact. So the same thing must happen in Einstein's model as well.

Somehow these points on the asteroid must also move further apart. But wait Einstein according to you that asteroid is inertial. There are no forces acting on it. Which means I can assume that all the parts of that asteroid are at rest. So the world lines of these two points should be vertical and parallel. There

should be no curves, no acceleration. And yet somehow the asteroid should stretch. Meaning the distance between these vertical parallel lines should increase. How can the distance between parallel lines, straight lines increase without curving? That's impossible. Einstein

and Einstein says, "Mahes, that's not the attitude we have over here. Don't say it's impossible. If you want to have breakthroughs, instead ask, how can I make this possible?" And I'm like, "Okay, how can we make parallel straight lines move farther apart without curving them? How is that how can we make that possible?" And Einstein says, "What if

we drew them on a globe? Imagine two people walking north from the equator along the lines of longitude. They start off parallel and they are walking as straight as possible. No turning, no curving. And yet they slowly move closer together. Why? Because the

surface itself is curved. On curved surfaces, look, straight pots can come closer. Now if the surface was like a saddle then the straight parallel paths could also drift apart and I'm like wait wait wait these are not straight lines Einstein these are curves I mean the line of longitude is a part of a circle so isn't this doesn't apply over here right and Einstein asks mish what's your definition of a straight line and I'm like well it's the shortest path between two points and says well a line of longitude is a shortest path between say the two poles of the Earth. So it fits the definition of straight line. Now to avoid this confusion with this whole straight terminology, the shortest path between any two points is in general called a geodisic. Okay. So long story

short, on a flat piece of paper, if you draw two parallel geodisics, they will have to stay equidistant. But on a curved surface, parallel geodysics can converge or diverge or do whatever they want. So coming back every tiny part of this asteroid including these front and back pieces are inertial. Right? If we assume it to be at rest then their paths through spaceime must be straight geodiesic and parallel. Right? Now we

know the asteroid stretches. So I want these parts to move away but still stay a geodeic. There is only one way that can happen. If the underlying spacetime itself is curved then like on a saddle parallel geodysics can diverge. This is how we can explain the asteroid stretching. Even though there are no

external forces acting on it, it stretches because even though there are no forces, these inertial world lines are on a curved spaceime drifting apart making the asteroid stretch. This is how Einstein concludes by analyzing the tidal forces that our spacetime must be curved. Isn't that amazing? I mean, oh my god, this is how it happens. Einstein, this is amazing. But I still

want to circle back to the question that I asked earlier. If the ground is accelerating up, shouldn't the Earth expand over time? And Ein says, "All right, let's draw a spaceime diagram one more time. Without any mass, spacetime is flat. That means two parallel geodisics like the world lines of these two apples at rest for example will stay parallel. So the distance between them

stays constant. What happens when we add the earth? Now in Newton's model, spacetime still stays flat. The earth pulls on the apples curving their world lines inward. So look, the apples deviate from their straight inertial paths. they accelerate. That's gravity

as a force. But in Einstein's model, there is no force. Instead, the Earth curves spacetime itself. So these parallel geodysics don't stay parallel. They converge. The apples are now just

following their inertial paths, straight lines in curved spacetime. On the diagram, those paths look curved, but they're not accelerating. That curvature is just what straight looks like in curved spacetime. Now zoom out and look at the opposite ends of the earth mahesh. Their geodisics should also curve inwards curve because spacetime is curved. So if these two pieces of earth

were inertial they too would move towards the center but they can't because the earth's matter below resists it. So it constantly pushes them outwards accelerating them away from their inertial geodic. So on the diagram these world lines look straight but they're accelerating. That straight line is just what an accelerated path looks like again when the spacetime itself is curved. So look Mah in curved spacetime earth's surface must be in a constant outward acceleration just to maintain its shape otherwise it would collapse inwards. By

the way it's similar on the globe. If these two now want to maintain a constant distance between them they have to move away from their geodics. So look they have to keep moving away from each other just to maintain their distance. And this kind of makes sense right because the curvature naturally tends to bring them closer. So if they don't want to come closer, they have to move away from each other. Similarly, the ends of

the earth have to be accelerating away from each other outwards just to maintain the shape in the curved spaceime. And because of that outward acceleration, people on the earth feel their weight due to their inertia. So can we now summarize Einstein's thinking process that led him to this whole idea of curved spacetime? First, freely falling objects all accelerate at the same rate regardless of their mass. He finds that very suspicious. He

doesn't accept the whole gravitational charge must just happens to be the same as inertial mass. He says, "Let's keep it simple since falling folks don't feel or measure any acceleration." He claims that falling can be treated to be inertial and gravity is just equivalent to acceleration. And as a result, he concludes that gravity must not be a real force. It's just an illusion. But

that doesn't explain why falling objects get stretched. So the next crucial step is he rephrases that problem using geometry. He realizes that asking how can a floating object with no forces on them stretch is the same as asking how can parallel straight lines move away without curving. I find that a stroke of genius because that he rephrased the problem um you know in in in terms of geometry a physical problem in terms of geometry and that's amazing if you ask me and finally he connects all the dots and realizes on curved surfaces parallel lines can drift apart without curving themselves and so the same thing must be happening over here and that's how he explains the title forces by saying spaceime itself must be curved we just rediscovered the step-bystep thinking process that planted the seeds for general relativity. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. I mean, Einstein got

stuck again. So, let me know if you want to dig deeper. There is so much more to rediscover over here. Stay tuned.