---
video_title: "I finally understood how Einstein vizualised spacetime curvature! (My mind is blown!)"
video_id: bV7KeKAPBQc
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bV7KeKAPBQc
video_date: 2025-07-25
video_description: |
  To try everything Brilliant has to offer—free—for a full 30 days, visit https://brilliant.org/FloatHeadPhysics/ . You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription
  
  This is also my submission for the summer of math exposition 4. #SoME4
  Let's intuitively rediscover the idea of metric tensor. And how it's at the heart of general relativity. 
  
  This video was sponsored by Brilliant
---
This object is at the heart of understanding relativity. It fully describes space-time geometry, including its curvature. It helps us compute with absurd levels of precision how this curvature affects time without which GPS satellites and Google maps wouldn't work. It helped us discover and correctly model black holes and event horizons, gravitational waves, and even the expansion of the universe itself. I kid you not, it's that powerful. It's

called the metric tensor. But what exactly is it? When I tried to read about it, all I got were these vague definitions and that it can be written as a giant matrix with a lot of components and that it's coariant, whatever that means. And it's used in this particular formula which has a lot of mus and news. Yeah, none of that made any intuitive sense to me until now.

After going through a lot of resources, I think I finally have some intuition behind the math of relativity. And boy oh boy, it's so cool. And I'm super excited to share that with you. So in this video, we're going to pretend we don't know anything about metric whatever. And like always, discover rediscover everything from scratch, step by step, intuitively. So if you're ready

for this, let's begin. So Einstein, where do we start? And Ein says, let's get right to it. Let's start with a ridiculously simple question. Can you find the distance between these two houses? And I say, sure. I mean

horizontally they are three units apart and vertically they are four units apart. So from Pythagoras theorem they must be five units apart. But Ein says mish what's the physical distance in kilome? And I say well for that you need to tell me how big a unit is for example if one unit is 1 kilm then the distance is going to be 5 km and Ein says exactly Moes this is the metric tensor. I mean there is a small nuance to it which we'll get back to later but at the heart of it metric tensor is a mathematical object that converts from arbitrary coordinates to real physical distances and I say that's it that's what a metric is is basically a conversion factor then why do we call it a tensor and make and make a big deal out of it why does it have all of these components mahesh why don't we shrink the grid to half its size now look the horizontal distance is instead of 3 units, 6 units and the vertical distance has gone from 4 to 8 units which means according to Pythagoras this distance is now 10 units. Does that mean that the distance

between the houses has changed? And I say of course not because look now 1 unit is half a kilometer. So if we multiply by the metric then we get back the same answer. And Eisen says look this means when we shrunk the grid the metric transformed in such a way that the physical distance remained invariant and that lights up a bulb in my head because that's exactly what a tensor does. That's the core feature of a tensor. Its core feature is that when

the coordinates transform the tensor transforms in such a way that the underlying physical quantity remains invariant. So that's why it makes sense to call t the metric a tensor. Beautiful, right? Okay. Now that we know that the metric is a tensor, the next obvious question we have should be Einstein, what's the rank of this metric? And Ein says, Mahesh, for that,

tell me this. How many numbers do you think you need to fully represent the metric? And I say, well, just one number, right? Like we have shown over here. And smiles and says, well, Mah, that's the case if you're using a square grid. But what if you're using a

rectangular grid? And at first I'm like, why would anybody use a rectangular grid like this? And I says, we'll get back to that. But now, how many numbers do you need? And I say, yeah, well, now one number is not enough. Now we need two

numbers. One number to represent how big the unit is in the horizontal. Another number to represent how big the unit is in the vertical. So, right, we need two numbers. And now Mahesh, can you compute the distances one more time to just confirm we get the same answer?

All right, let's do this. So in this new grid, we have 1 2 3 6 units horizontally, but still four units vertically. Ooh, that means I cannot directly use Pythagoras because they don't have the same units. I better first multiply with the metric. And now I get 3 km, 4 km. So obviously this will

be 5 km. Now if I use the Pythagoras theorem the hypotenuse square equals the base squar plus the opposite side squared giving us 5 km. So Ein says look Mahesh this means when you're using a rectangular grid you can no longer directly use Pythagoras. You need to have some coefficients in front that represents the scaling factor. It tells you how the different scales are for horizontal and vertical. Here the

scaling factor is half square which is.25 and here the scaling factor is just one. So remember that we said there was a nuance over here. Well, it's these numbers that are the components of the metric tensor, not these the square of those values because it's the squares that become the direct coefficient for the x² and the y square terms. Which means we can now generalize pythagoras theorem for rectangular grid.

So all we have to do is add coefficients in front of x² and y square. These are the scaling factors. Again, these are the components of the metric tensor. And I ask well wait a second why do you call it gxx and not just gx? Einson says well that's because this is the coefficient of x² term x * x and this is the coefficient of y square term. Now at

this point I need to apologize. See I should have actually written it as delta x and delta y because remember these represent displacements not coordinates but I forgot about it and for the rest of the presentation I've just written it as x and y. So for the rest of the video wherever you see X Y or Z for that matter remember it's actually displacements not coordinates. Okay end of apology. All right. So this means we

need two numbers to fully represent the metric tensor right and Eisen says oh Mahes that's true if we are dealing with axes that are always perpendicular but what if the axis themselves are skewed like oh no. So Mahesh, do you think the formula still works in this coordinates? And I say, well, no, because we no longer have a right angle triangle. But it's nothing we cannot handle actually because we can always con make constructions and complete the right angle triangle. So let's call this as X and Y and forget about scaling for a second and then we'll realize we've tackled this while doing vector addition in high school.

What we should do is we should complete this triangle and then if this angle is theta then the base becomes y cos theta and the opposite side becomes y sin theta. And look now I can compute the hypotenuse. So the hypotenuse squared becomes the base squar plus the opposite side squared. And so now if I simplify I get this. And since sin square theta + cos square theta is just 1 I can write this as y square. And there you have it.

And Ein says perfect. Now all we have to do is make this a little bit more elegant. How shall we do that? Well, first of all, you have this 2xy cos theta over here. Well, we can write this as xy cos theta plus yx cos theta. And ask why?

Well, because there's a nice ring to it, right? I mean, you have x² term, then you have an xy, then you have the yx, and there's the y square. So, it's just beautiful. Okay. But now if we add back the scaling factor, can you imagine what the general formula looks like? Well,

it's going to be some coefficient * x² plus some coefficient * xy plus some coefficient * yx plus some coefficient * y 2. Which means we can write the most general formula like this. And by the way, these two coefficients, as you can see, are exactly the same thing. It's just written that way. So it be looks beautiful and symmetric. And while we're

at it, the last elegance we can do is instead of writing as x squ, we can just write as x * x and y * y. And boy oh boy, look at this. The most general form of distance formula that will work in any coordinate system written elegantly. Isn't that amazing? Anyways, look mahesh. These four

coefficients now become the components of the metric tensor. These two value tells you how much the x and the y axis are scaling. And these two which are equal they tell you the angle between the x and y. So you need a total of four numbers in general to fully represent the metric in two dimensions. And I say well actually it's only three numbers right? The fourth one is the same. And

yeah three unique numbers the fourth one is redundant. Remember these two are exactly the same. It's written just for the sake of symmetry. So if you write it as a matrix the matrix should be diagonally symmetric. For example these are the values that you can have. So

look these two numbers should always be the same. And if these numbers become zero, that means we the the grid is perpendicular. We get back our rectangular grid. And if these two numbers are one, well, we get back our square grid. We get back our Pythagoras theorem. So this is the simplest metric

that you can think about. But anyways, this is what the metric looks like in two dimensions. Mahesh, what do you think the metric looks like in three dimensions? How many total numbers do we need and how many of them are unique? And I say well we can just extend this right we can just write a zed over here and we get a total of nine terms. Now xx

y and zz they represent the scaling in x y and z axis and these terms represent the angle between xy and y z and z x and of course these three terms must be redundant with these three terms that means in total we have only six unique terms and says perfect that's exactly right and look because we have written it so elegantly it's easy to write the whole distance formula in three dimensions it's going to be x into x * gxx x x into y * gxy x into z * gxz and so on and so forth. So that's why we write it so elegantly. So beautiful isn't it? So Mahesh can you now tell what the rank of the metric tensor is? And I say well okay in two dimensions uh the metric has four components two squared. In three dimensions it has nine

components. So 3 squared. In n dimensions it'll have n squared components. So so square that represents the rank. So it must be a rank two tensor. And of course another way to see

it is that there are two index to represent the tensor. So it's a rank two tensor. And Einstein says, "Perfect. Its metric tensor is ranked two." But wait, wait, wait, wait. Now I have a question.

Actually, a really, really, really silly, silly question. Einstein, how do I write this in n dimensions? I mean, notation wise, because we have x, y, z, and then what? Right? And Ein says, that's not a silly question at all.

Notations are a big deal. So, let's look at how we do this. First thing because we want to write this in n dimensions instead of writing it as x y and z we will write it as x1 x2 and x3 that's how we'll represent our dimensions. Okay. So that's the first change we will do and the moment we do that we can now instead of writing as gxx and gxy we can write as g11 g12 g13 and so on and so forth.

And the beauty is mahesh look look we can now write this as a summation isn't it? We can write this as summation of g and we can use some letters to represent the index over here and the indexes will run from one to n where n represents the dimension. So let's write it this way. So s square is the summation and we usually like to use Greek letters for the index. So mu and new that's where the mu and new comes from 1 to n and we can write as g mu new and x mu * x new.

Beautiful. That's the notation we can write and extend this to n dimensions. But now just when everything is going really well, everything starting to make perfect sense, Einstein does something very weird to me. He raises the indices on the displacement terms. Einstein, buddy, what did you just do?

Where do we have why do we have x square and x cq? Where do they come from? And Einstein says m no, no, no, these are not powers. There are no there are no exponents over here. These are still just indices but instead of writing as a subscript we write them as a superscript. And I say why? Well Einson

says remember when we shrunk the grid uh to half its size the metric also became half and when we blow up the grid to twice the size the metric also transforms to become double. So look the metric changes in the same way as the grid. It co-varies with the grid. And so we call such tensors co-variant tensors. Covariant tensors are the ones that vary in the same way as the grid. In

contrast, if you look at the displacement vectors, when the grid shrunk to half its size, they became double. And if the grid becomes double in size, they became half, which means they vary in the opposite way as the grid varies. And so we call such tensors or such vectors contravariant tensors or contravariant vectors. Contravariant means these are the tensors or vectors that change in the opposite way as the grid changes. And the convention that we have adopted is for co-variant tensors we use the index as a sup sub subscript like usual. But for contravariant ones,

the ones that vary in the opposite way, we'll choose the opposite convention. We'll use them as superscripts. It's it's just a convention. And so if you go back to our distance formula, we can immediately look at the index and say that hey this is a co-variant term and these two are contravariant because they have superscripts. And because you're multiplying a coariant with a contravariant, we end up with invariant distance. That's what makes the distance

invariant. It it's beautiful if you ask me. And finally finally, you know, because we know it's a summation, let's just get rid of the summation term and keep it clean. And boom, there you have it. Beautiful, isn't it? I mean, I am

not much of a notation guy, but I'm a sucker for elegance, and this is so elegant. So, that's it. This is the most general form of the distance formula, right? And Einstein smiles says, "No, there's one last generalization left." Mahesh, what if you use a grid that looks like this? Oh my god, this is such

a mess. Why would anybody use a grid like this? I know, I know. So we'll get to that later on. But anyways, over here, oh my god, the units are changing everywhere. The angles are changing

everywhere. Oo, this means the metric is changing everywhere. At every point, we have a different metric, which means we now have a metric field. So how do you calculate the distance from here to here if the metric itself varies? Well, we can break it into small small parts. We

can zoom into small sections and if the parts are very small we can assume approximate the metric to be constant in that particular small section and then use that metric to calculate the distances of those tiny parts. In other words, this formula in general can only be applied to small patches of space. This is a differential formula. So I should have called it as the small differential element squared and these are small differential um x and y or you know coordinate terms displacement terms. This means in general if we are calculating it we have to add up all these individual elements which means we have to integrate it. This is it in its

full glory the most general way to calculate distances and we discovered it all ourselves just by using pythogoras. I mean, imagine how tearyeyed a Pythagoras would be if he knew that we could generalize his formula for n dimensions and make it work for abstract coordinates. Oh my god, that is amazing. And what's more amazing is that we can discover a lot of concepts just like this from scratch by using brilliant.org, the sponsor of this video. I love Brilliant and I keep

recommending it because you can start becoming a better thinker for free. Like in my videos, it also takes a discovery approach. With thousands of hands-on interactive lessons in math, science, programming, data analysis, and even AI, you're not just watching a passive video. You have to interact with it. You are forced to reason. You are

challenged. And these lessons are highly focused and they help you gain a deep intuition. And this is what is needed to help you level up and master the foundational skills. And I think this is the most effective way to learn anything. For example, if you ever wondered how computers really work at the most fundamental level, check out their brand new course on digital circuits. I mean, you actually get to

build different logic gates like being in a lab and rediscover how they are at the heart of every computing device. I've been recommending Brilliant to my colleagues, to my students from way before they started sponsoring my videos. So, if you want to try everything that Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, you can go to brilliant.org/flot org/flotatedphysics. The link is also in the description or you can just scan the QR code. And if

you use my link to buy a subscription, you'll also get a 20% off. Okay, back to the video. Einstein, this is all amazing and I truly appreciate it, but you still haven't answered my original question. Why use this? I mean, I can always choose to use a square grid and stick to Pythagoras, right? And Einstein says,

"Yes, Mahes, you're right. When it comes to flat surfaces, you don't need to use these curved coordinates with varying metric. You can just choose to use a flat grid with a constant metric and just stick to Pythagoras. But what if you're dealing with a curved surface like that of the Earth? Now, even if you try to put the simplest grid like latitude and longitude lines, look, now the distance, the unit keeps changing.

So, you have no choice but to deal with varying metric. It's impossible to find a grid where the metric stays the same everywhere. That's just not possible. Which means you are forced to use this general formula to calculating distances over here. But wait a second. I can I

can draw a map and put a square grid on it, right? Yes, says Einstein. But you can never ever make the metric a constant. This is impossible. Whenever you do look at maps, the metric keeps varying one way or the other. That's why

all world maps are distorted because you're forced to have a varying metric. It is impossible to draw a world map which has a constant metric. It's not possible because the intrinsic geometry itself is curved. Okay. So what does it all mean now? And

Eisen says and this is the climax now. Okay. Ready for it? So Eisen says this means we now have a way to check if a spa given space is curved or not. If someone gives you a coordinate system with a varying metric and you want to check whether it's flat or curved just try to do a coordinate transformation and see if you can find a metric that looks like this a constant one. If you

can then that means the space is flat. Uh this varying metric was just an artifact of using weird coordinates. But if you find that it's impossible to convert it into a constant metric, regardless of what coordinates you choose, you just cannot transform it. Then that means that the varying metric is not just an artifact of coordinates. It is built into the geometry. That

means that that space was curved all along. So look, we have a mathematical way to check whether a space is curved or not. Isn't that amazing? And I say, "That sounds awesome, and I still need some time to wrap my head around it. But why do I ever need it?"

I mean, why go through all of this trouble? I can always look at a space and tell whether it's flat or curved, right? His says, "Not really, Mahes. I mean, look at a cylinder. It looks curved to you, but you can put a grid with a constant metric because you can literally open up a cylinder. So, in

that sense, it is flat. So, you cannot, you know, it's not that intuitive. But more importantly, your intuition only works for two-dimensional surfaces. But this mathematical tool that we have that works for any number of dimensions. That means we have a method at least in principle to check whether a I don't know a 10-dimensional abstract space is flat or curved from Pythagoras to the ability to check flatness and curvature of ndimensional surfaces. I

don't know about you, but that is insane. I mean tell me tell me that that is not insane. But what Einstein does next is even more insane. Einstein says if we can apply this to n dimensions can we just apply it to fourdimensional space time. This was the big leap that Einstein had. I mean this

idea of metric and curvature and all of this existed way before Einstein but people only applied it to space because time was an independent universal thing until special relativity came along. Einstein showed that it's much better to model our universe not as three dimensions of space plus time but four-dimensional spaceime. And so now we're about to discover how to take this idea to its full potential. Are you ready? Let's jump to spaceime. So

instead of two houses which are very close to each other, let's consider two planets far away. So over here both axes are space. But if you want to jump to space time, we want to consider one axis to be space and the other to be time. So now we have space and time. Now when we only consider space, what matters to us is physical distance between things. For example, the

distance between planets. Let's say these two planets are four light years apart. But when it comes to space time, what's important for us is distance between events. That's what matters. So let's consider an event. Let's imagine

there's a spaceship that moves from here to here at a constant velocity. So our first event would be the spaceship leaving this planet. So let's put that over here at time t=0. And let's say the spaceship goes from here to here at a constant velocity and arrives over here 5 years later. So that is the second event. So the spaceship arrives over

here and this is event two and notice the event two is 5 years apart in time. The central mind-boggling thing about relativity is that just like how when you think about distances between two objects like the two houses the horizontal and the vertical values are arbitrary. They depend on you know which coordinate system you use. They change isn't it? What doesn't change is this actual physical distance. In a similar

way in space-time the space and time between events are also arbitrary which means there could be another observer moving with respect to us and he will disagree with these values. He might say something like hey the space between events is just one and a half light years and the spaceship only traveled for three and a half years and we are both right. Space and time between events are arbitrary. They are not real things. They depend on reference frames.

But even though people disagree on horizontal and vertical, they all agree on this physical distance given by this formula, the Pythagoras. In a similar way, even though people disagree with space and time between events, they will all agree. Everybody will agree on the space time distance or space time interval between events. And how do you calculate that? Well, you calculate very similar to this except you have a minus sign. And at first I'm like, wait a

second, where does that minus sign even come from? Like you're just throwing that formula at my face. And Ein says, actually there's a very elegant way to even rediscover this idea. But that's a story for another video because it comes from special relativity and the fact that, you know, we all move at the speed of light through spaceime, all of that stuff. Nothing to do with metric and stuff. This is special relativity. So

let me know if you want to dig deeper into what that minus sign is. Where does it come from? That's also pretty cool. But for the sake of this video, what's important to understand is that if you now plug in the values 5 squar minus 3 square, we get this to be 3. And the same value we'll get if you plug in 3 1/2 and 1.8. In other words, every

single observer in this universe will agree that the space-time interval between these two events is three units. That is invariant. Everyone agrees on it. But wait a second. What exactly is this three units? How do I think about it?

And essence is again we can rediscover these ideas ourselves. And we'll do that in a separate video. But this term happens to be proper time. Which means it's the amount it tells us how much an object has aged when it has gone from one part, you know, one event to another. So in other words, the inhabitants of this spaceship only aged by 3 years. So even though we saw the

spaceship take 5 years to go from here to here, the inhabitants only aged by 3 years. This is time dilation. But what's important is that everybody agrees, even the other observer will agree that the folks in the spaceship only aged by 3 years. That is something that's invariant and that's why we call it the proper time because everybody agrees on that. So long story short, the distance formula here tells you well how much is the distance between two objects, right?

But the distance formula over here, Mahesh, it tells you how much an object has aged when it goes from one event to another. very different things but still look at the formula they are so similar which means we can draw a parallel between these two just like over here we can say that the metric is a constant I can now put a grid over here and say the metric over here is also a constant but of course a small difference is that there's a minus sign because this there's a minus sign in my formula but everything else remains exactly the same by the way we give this metric a name we call it the Minowski metric um It's named after Einstein's professor who he didn't like very much. Now, of course, this is just the two-dimensional version of the metric where we have one dimension of time and only one dimension for space. Of course, we live in four dimensions. So, this is the full Minowski metric. And again, the minus

sign captures how space behaves differently than time. And yes, you can make the time negative and space positive. It doesn't matter. It's just a convention. But the point is just like before when you had a constant metric we said the space is flat. Now because we have a

constant metric we can say the space time is flat and just like before you are free to choose whatever you know coordinates you want and if you choose weird coordinates you'll end up with weird metric but you can always coordinate transform it back to Minowski metric. That's what it means to be flat. This varying metric was just an artifact of choosing weird coordinates. However, Mahesh, what if you find yourself in a space-time with varying metric which you can never transform back to Minowski. Then that means this varying metric is no longer an artifact of you know weird coordinates. It is intrinsic to

space-time geometry. It is intrinsically curved. This is how you can think about spacetime being flat and curved. And I find this amazing and really amazing because till now I used to think of spacetime as flat and curved only using an analogy. You know the 2D analogy of you know flat and curved. But now my

thinking has been upgraded. We can now think rigorously. Spacetime is flat if you can get the Minowski metric. If you can never transform it back to Minowski, it's curved. That is insane.

But remember curved spacetime is gravity which is now encoded by metric. In other words, it's the metric tensor that encodes gravity. It encodes the space-time geometry in it. Wow. But of course, the obvious ultimate question for us now is how do you actually do this? What operation can you do on a

given metric to check whether it can be turned into Minowski or not? In other words, what operation should you do on a metric to check whether you're in flat spacetime or not? And Einstein says that's the ultimate question and that's something we should dig deeper in a separate video. And by the way, he did struggle with it a lot. Um, but fortunately he had an amazing friend Marcel Gman who was a brilliant mathematician. So they collaborated

together and they figured it all out. Einstein realized exactly what are the different operations you need to do. It turns out you need to do some calculus on the metric tensor and they figured it all out out and eventually Einstein was able to encode all of this in his famous field equations. It inputs mass and energy distribution in spacetime and then it outputs after a lot of work, if you're lucky, it'll output the metric. And this metric encodes the geometry of spacetime. It encodes curvature. And

when you compute the metric for a simple point mass, you'll notice that the metric blows up at a couple of spots. You could dismiss that as a weird mathematical glitch or take it seriously, dig deeper and discover event horizons and black holes. That's literally how we did it. And if you set the proper time to zero, you get the path that light takes. It's called the null path. Einstein used exactly this to

predict how starlight would bend near the sun. And during the 1919 solar eclipse, Edington measured it and gave the world the first direct confirmation of general relativity. It's the same math we use to simulate these black holes as well. And if you do a bit of calculus on the metric tensor, you can figure out the freef fall paths, the orbits, the geodics. Einstein did this and realized that planetary orbits should actually process slightly and it perfectly accounted for the Mercury's orbital procession. And because this

equation gives you proper time, you can use it to compute how fast clock ticks at different altitudes. That's exactly what's needed to correct GPS systems. Without it, they would be off by kilometers every single day. But that's not all. You may even wonder, can the metric vary with time? Could it

oscillate? Well, then you would hypothesize gravitational waves. And if the metric changes continuously with time, then you can hypothesize the expansion of the universe itself and even predict the big bang. The metric is the heart of general relativity. We'll dig deep into all of these soon. See

you.