---
video_title: "The most powerful way to learn anything (It's Brilliant)"
video_id: 6rkSPPyz_Bo
channel_name: "FloatHeadPhysics"
channel_id: UCGfFUc6eWxfbtjYeun6r9xg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6rkSPPyz_Bo
video_date: 2025-11-21T13:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  To learn for free on Brilliant, go to https://brilliant.org/BrilliantFloatHeadPhysics/  . You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.
  
  
  Want my T-shirt? 
  https://floatheadphysics.com/products/i-am-sexy-i-know-it'
  
  This video is sponsored by Brilliant
---
This video is sponsored by brilliant.org. More about them later in the video. He's using brilliant.org, the sponsor of this video. Brilliant.

Brilliant. >> Brilliant. Brilliant, the sponsor of this video.

A couple of weeks back, Brilliant reached out and asked if I was interested in making a dedicated sponsor video. Now, I know how you folks feel about sponsorship. So, I immediately said, instead of sneakily pushing your product and talking about it like how it's usually done, I thought maybe I'll just do what I'm really good at. I'll make my thinking process about sponsorships in general as transparent as possible and try to make the most authentic sponsored video ever. And so, I asked them, would you be cool with that? and Brilliant

said, "All right, let's go ahead with this." And here we are. The core idea behind sponsorships is that there is a brand that's genuinely trying to solve a problem. They have tested their products and services with real users, gotten great feedback, and now they want to reach more people to grow. And that's where the right influencer comes in. They help connect

the brand with their loyal followers, making it a winwinwin situation. I mean the influencer wins because they get paid. The brand wins because their business grows and their revenue probably grows as well. And even the audience wins because remember their problems are getting solved. But the world is far from ideal. On the other

end of the spectrum, you've got brands that only pretend to solve problems. They promise results when but when people try it, it doesn't deliver at all. So what do they do? Well, they scratch their project and start a new. Just kidding. No, they still decide to

partner with an influencer. Now, ideally, the influencer should see through this and reject it. But, or maybe they got fooled. Who knows? Whatever it is, they still connect their followers to the brand. And this time,

the influencer wins, the brand wins, but the audience lose. And since there is more ways for this to happen, statistically you would encounter these more often on the internet, making sponsorships feel scammy. So what can we creators do to try and avoid that as much as possible? Well, some people take a drastic stance. They say, "We're not going to do any sponsorships. We're not

going to play that game at all." And I totally respect that. I mean, if you don't know, sponsorships can be a huge, if not the major revenue stream for any content creator. So if your favorite YouTuber has gone down that route, then they deserve your extra support. Okay?

But then there are people like me who still believe maybe naively that they can actually make sponsorships work the way it was supposed to. So my question has always been how can floated physics be on this side of the spectrum? Well, I started asking myself two questions. First, have I used or recommended their services or products way before, ideally years before they first approached me? And second, can my audience try out the entire product or the service for free for a limited time so that they don't have to succumb to my biases or take my word for it? This severely limits the

sponsorship opportunities that I would get. But if the answer to both these questions are a resounding yes, then I think it makes perfect sense to collaborate with them. And this is where brilliant.org comes in. Let me show you something. Look at this oldest email

that I could find on on my phone from Brilliant. And look at the date. It's 2018. And then let me show you one more. Look at this one. This one is reminding

me about my premium subscription. And again, look at the date. It's 2022. And lastly, okay, the last one. When did they first approach me? Look,

this is the first sponsorship email I got from Brilliant. And look at the date. That's 2023. So hopefully this gives you some evidence that I have been using Brilliant for quite a while, years before they actually first approached me. So look, Brilliant checks my first box. But there are a ton of learning

websites. So what sets Brilliant apart? Well, let me just show you. Have a look at how their calculus course, for example, starts. It directly starts with a concrete, relatable, and a real world example. That's how a great teacher

would start a course, right? But that's not even the main thing for me. What's interesting is that Brilliant, a learning platform, doesn't even have any videos explaining what derivatives are or how are they connected to slopes or tangents. Instead, it lets you play around and feel what tangents are, how if you zoom into any curve, it starts looking flat, and how you can talk about its steepness. Eventually, it helps you to intuitively rediscover yourself what derivatives are. It does the same for

integrals. Again, instead of telling you what integrals are, you interact with it and see how summations turn into integrals. You gain a visual intuition. Similarly, in three dimensions, you get to see how you can approximate a sphere by stacking a lot of tiny cylinders. So in short, Brilliant lets you interact with the idea, get your hands dirty, gain some intuition, and then try to rediscover the ideas all by yourself.

And it's not just calculus. For example, I recently came across their course on programming with functions. And look at how it starts again. Let's build an image filter. I don't know about you, but that's way more exciting than let's learn about functions. And again, it's

the same philosophy. It doesn't tell you what a function is or how it works. You first manipulate pixels manually. Then you try to create a code for it. And eventually, when you find yourself repeating instructions over and over again, you discover the idea of functions all by yourself. And you'll

see this all across the courses. So, I love Brilliant because of its intuitive and interactive, but most importantly, the guided discovery approach. And you know that I too try to use the same approach on my channel because turns out that research shows rediscovery is guided rediscovery. Careful guided rediscovery is one of the most powerful ways to learn because think about it when I as an educator am explaining things to you, breaking things down. I am the one who's doing the processing and then just giving you the output of that. But here you are doing the

majority of the processing. Your neurons are firing, forming all kinds of new connections and brilliant is guiding you, enabling you, helping you activate necessary prior information. That's what I think sets it apart and I'm sure there are moments where you have figured something out all by yourself. So, you experienced it. Isn't it exhilarating?

Right? So, I knew that this is the approach that I have to take for my teaching. And so I've tried to incorporate this in my classrooms or tutoring sessions. It's very hard when there are a lot of students and you have this pressure of finishing the curriculum and all of that. But whenever it did work, you should just see the the way the learner's faces light up. Oh

man, that is that is very precious. And so I've always been on the lookout for, you know, if there are any websites or apps or articles or anything, you know, that that also, you know, take the same approach. And so imagine my joy eventually when I came across brilliant.org and I think I came across it via some other sponsor video itself. And so the moment I started trying it I understood what they were after that it's the same thing the guided discovery approach and so I immediately resonated with it and I started using it a lot and I realized that this is really cool what they're doing and so I've been using it ever since and u I've been of course asking my students and asking other colleagues to try it out as well. And think about

this. A couple of years ago, when my channel finally started blowing up after a long time, I got my very first sponsorship opportunity, legitimate sponsorship opportunity, and that was brilliant. So, it felt like some kind of a cosmic thing for me. So, it just felt it just felt right to take that sponsorship. But, and this is important, I don't want you to take my word for it because even though I'm trying to be as authentic as possible, maybe I'm just biased over here. So that brings me to my second

criteria. Can my audience try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a limited time so that you know they don't succumb to my biases? And the answer is yes, you can if you use my custom link brilliant.org/billiantflot physics. The link is al also in the description and somewhere in the pinned comment as well. And there there's a QR

code somewhere floating around over here. If you use any of this, yeah, you can try the website out for yourself for free. So, you don't have to take my word for it. And while doing so, browse through their library. They have a ton of courses in various disciplines in math, science, programming, even AI for that matter. So, you can skim through a

few lessons to get a feel for it. But do pick one or two courses that you're genuinely curious about and do a deep dive. If you don't like it, no harm, no foul. But if you do enjoy it and you want to make a purchase, please use my code brilliant float physics at the checkout. So you let Brilliant know that you came through this video. That will

help me, but it'll also help you because you'll get a 20% discount on your annual premium purchase. But but but remember if your goal is to get a ton of problem solving practice or you're looking for a comprehensive course which is aligned to some standards and a lot of us are looking for those things then Brilliant may not be the best fit for you. There are a lot of other websites or even great books out there. In contrast, if you want to experience figuring things out for yourself or intuitively rediscover major ideas across various disciplines, I honestly can't think of anything better than brilliant. Because if we to zoom out, I think their overarching goal is not just to teach a few specific subjects, but it's actually to help us become better problem solvers. I mean why else would they have

such unique courses like scientific thinking, mathematical and algorithmic thinking, reasoning with logic because I think this kind of thinking does affect our decision-m in the real world in all aspects in all major aspects like whether you consider your career choices or you know where you want to live for example or your relationships I think it affects them all and so I think what they're trying to do is you know make us a better problem solver So if if that makes sense to you then yeah I think brilliant is a perfect fit and so if you are trying it out then do try one of those unique courses as well and see if it does affect you know the way you think if it if it influences the way you think. So wrapping up, I think Brilliant checks both my boxes. And so the question going back to the original question, do you think this sponsorship um this collaboration lies on the ideal end of the spectrum like you know a win-win-win situation for all of us? I personally like to think so because Brilliant has been sponsoring me for about a couple of years now. That means it's working out for them. What does

that mean? That means people are not just trying things out, but they are also actually making a purchase and renewing it, right? Otherwise, it wouldn't work out for them. Otherwise, we wouldn't continue the sponsorships. So, I like to think that it's not just a one-time purchase that people are doing just because I asked them to do it. But,

I genuinely think that people are trying it out and they're liking it. And, you know, enough people are, of course, not all of them. Some people obviously not like it, but enough people are liking it and so that's why the sponsorships are getting continued. And so that makes me feel like, yeah, I think that this, you know, is a win-win-win situation for all of us. And so, um, yeah, this makes me feel good, but I'm always open for feedback. So, you know, if you want to

give some feedback to me, first try it out. At least try it out. Try out booion.org using my custom link and then come back over here and and tell me whether whatever I said in this entire video, does it made did it make sense to you? Did did it feel authentic or not? I

do not delete any comments, you know that. And so it's it'll stay over there. Other people can read it. Hopefully Brilliant can also read it. And hopefully it'll help us help us all. So

yeah, that's about it. I'll see you. Bye.