---
video_title: "Google acaba de lanzar su IA más útil"
video_id: ZHuTc42JQPo
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZHuTc42JQPo
video_date: 2026-05-25T17:00:35+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de lanzar una de las funciones MÁS útiles que hemos visto en Gemini… y prácticamente nadie está hablando de esto.
  
  Ahora Gemini puede crear:
  📄 PDFs
  📊 Excels
  📈 Presentaciones
  📝 Documentos
  📂 Google Sheets
  📑 Google Docs
  y mucho más… directamente desde un prompt.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va solo de generar archivos.
  
  👉 Va de entender cómo la IA está reemplazando tareas completas de oficina.
  
  Porque la mayoría de empresas todavía pierde horas:
  ❌ haciendo informes manuales
  ❌ organizando datos
  ❌ creando presentaciones
  ❌ gestionando documentos
  ❌ preparando reportes para clientes
  
  Y ahora todo eso puede automatizarse en minutos.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo usar Gemini para crear documentos automáticamente
  🔹 Cómo generar PDFs, Word, Excel y PowerPoints con IA
  🔹 Cómo crear dashboards financieros interactivos
  🔹 Cómo automatizar reportes para negocios
  🔹 Cómo convertir tickets y facturas en hojas de cálculo
  🔹 Cómo generar presentaciones comerciales automáticamente
  🔹 Cómo conectar Gemini con Google Drive y Google Workspace
  🔹 Cómo aprovechar esto para ahorrar tiempo o vender servicios
  
  🚀 Casos reales que veremos en el vídeo:
  
  🔹 Crear un informe ejecutivo automáticamente
  🔹 Generar un Excel financiero desde tickets y facturas
  🔹 Crear dashboards interactivos con IA
  🔹 Generar una presentación comercial completa
  🔹 Crear documentos profesionales para clientes
  🔹 Automatizar tareas repetitivas de oficina
  
  💰 Oportunidad de negocio:
  
  La mayoría de negocios todavía:
  ❌ depende de procesos manuales
  ❌ pierde tiempo organizando información
  ❌ paga herramientas y empleados para tareas repetitivas
  ❌ no utiliza automatización inteligente
  
  Con Gemini ahora puedes crear sistemas capaces de generar documentos completos prácticamente solos.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  👉 agencias
  👉 freelancers
  👉 consultores
  👉 creadores de contenido
  👉 negocios locales
  👉 empresas
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu empresa o automatizar procesos con IA:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/
  👉 Google Workspace: https://workspace.google.com/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:31 Lo nuevo que acaba de lanzar Gemini
  00:50 Convertir tickets y facturas en Excel
  03:12 Generar Presentaciones comerciales Automáticamente
  04:32 Generar Informes de Clientes
  05:34 Gemini Investiga por ti (PDF)
  06:29 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #Gemini #GoogleAI #IA #Automatizacion #GoogleWorkspace #Productividad #IAparaNegocios #HerramientasIA #GeminiAI #GoogleGemini #AutomatizacionIA #Emprendimiento #NegociosDigitales #Excel #PowerPoint #Word #GoogleSheets #GoogleDocs #IA2026
---
Google has just launched one of the most useful AI features we've seen this year, because now Yemen can automatically create PDFs, Excel spreadsheets, presentations, dashboards, and complete reports. The craziest part is, you don't need to touch Excel, Word, or PowerPoint. In this video, I'm going to show you real-world use cases that you can focus on for both productivity and business, which you can start applying today. Let's get started. Until now, AI only gave you text, and then you had to copy, sort, and paste it. Now, Yemen does all of that

directly for you, and this is a game-changer because we're entering an era where AI not only responds but also works for you. Gemini organizes your business. Imagine you own a bakery, and every week you receive expense reports and invoices, and you end up wasting hours organizing everything. All the promotional materials I'll be using in this video will be available on my website, which you can find in the description below, completely free. We access Yemen and send it the following prompt, then upload two receipts from a pastry shop that I generated with Yemen. The receipts look like the one I'm showing you

on the screen. The prompt is very simple. I'm asking it to extract the data from my receipts, such as the product and the total, and then create a Google Sheet separating expenses from income. It even creates a dashboard about my business's sales and finishes by generating a financial executive summary. Once we have it, we click send.

We see that it's extracting all the data from the receipts, and here it tells me that it has already created my Excel file so I can open it. We even have a financial dashboard. Let's open it. In the first view of our Excel file, we have the details of the expenses: the total amount of each receipt. If we access the income view, we also have it broken down by category, such as monthly consulting fees and software licenses with their corresponding amounts. And in the

last view, we have the dashboard we requested showing the distribution of income versus expenses, and this is fully customizable. If we increase the total expenses to 300, we see that our pie chart automatically changes. If we click on it, we can see the function it uses. Previously, this required an accounting firm, a manual, time, and highly technical knowledge. Now, literally speaking, by simply uploading our receipts and invoices, we have the results of an accounting firm. In fact, many companies are

implementing these types of internal systems. And if you want to implement this type of automation or artificial intelligence for your business , I've left a pinned comment where you can reserve a spot for my personalized consultations. Gemini creates presentations automatically. This seems incredible to me for freelance sales agencies. Imagine you have a meeting with a client tomorrow and you're completely unprepared. Simply by uploading our presentation to Gemini,

you create a presentation offering artificial intelligence services to companies, and you hit send. In just a few minutes, Yemini created our presentation, which, if we open it, consists of 13 slides. If we export the presentation, we have it here in Google Slides, ready to modify any data, text, or even visuals that we're not happy with. And it's worth noting that it also incorporates Nanobanana Pro's enhancement within Google Slides. For example, if we want to change the presentation's design, we simply select "Improve this slide" and send it a simple prompt like this one, and it automatically replaces the text with an infographic style for a much more visually appealing presentation. The result is incredible.

Years ago, this required PowerPoint knowledge, time, and creating a structure, but now, with Gemini, it's done in seconds. Client reports in seconds. This is where you truly begin to understand its potential. If we access the chat for the tickets I sent earlier, where it created our executive dashboard, we now send it the following prompt so it can perform a financial analysis in [format/format]. PDF and that includes a financial summary, BITDA, profitability, among many other data. Secondly,

we would have our generated PDF of the executive report. And this would be the three-page executive report. The first page has the financial summary with the key metrics and current value. On the second page, we have the cash flow visualization and the cost and profitability analysis. And on the third page, we have the opportunities for improvement and the strategic conclusions. And this is no longer simply using GPT chat; it's having a virtual employee

at your disposal. Gemini researches for you. I think this is amazing for content creators and businesses. Imagine asking Gemini to find the most relevant artificial intelligence news this week, summarize it, and create a draft for you to publish later. We attach our proposal and click send, with the goal of generating a Google Doc. We would now have

the summary of the most relevant artificial intelligence news for this week. Let's open it. It shows today's date and the current week and has created a summary of five AI news stories. And here's where a lot of people don't understand what's going on, because you can use this to create newsletters, generate content, reports, manage clients, and create proposals, or even sell these systems to companies. By the way, if you have a business and want to implement artificial intelligence, I've included my website link below in the description, where you'll find three service packages available. So, if you want

more videos about artificial intelligence applied to business and tools you can actually use in your daily work, you know what to do. Hype this video, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next AI updates. And remember, my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description.