---
video_title: "OpenAI acaba de lanzar su IA MÁS potente"
video_id: UyyJEzfq5RY
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyyJEzfq5RY
video_date: 2026-05-18T17:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  OpenAI acaba de lanzar Codex 2.0… y probablemente sea una de las inteligencias artificiales más potentes que hemos visto hasta ahora.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño cómo utilizar Codex para automatizar tareas reales, crear sistemas que trabajan solos, generar contenido automáticamente, construir aplicaciones, crear vídeos, controlar herramientas y mucho más.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va solo de una IA nueva.
  
  👉 Va de entender cómo está cambiando el trabajo digital.
  
  Porque ya no hablamos solo de chatbots.
  Ahora hablamos de agentes capaces de ejecutar tareas completas prácticamente solos.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo usar Codex 2.0 paso a paso
  🔹 Cómo crear automatizaciones reales con IA
  🔹 Cómo generar contenido automáticamente para negocios
  🔹 Cómo crear publicaciones e imágenes con IA
  🔹 Cómo usar IA para desarrollar apps y herramientas
  🔹 Cómo conectar Codex con software externo
  🔹 Cómo crear sistemas que trabajen mientras duermes
  🔹 Cómo aprovechar esto como emprendedor o freelancer
  
  🚀 Casos de uso reales que veremos:
  
  🔹 Sistema automático de noticias IA para newsletters
  🔹 Generación automática de contenido para redes sociales
  🔹 Creación de diapositivas y vídeos con IA
  🔹 Automatización para negocios locales
  🔹 Desarrollo de herramientas y dashboards
  🔹 Publicación automática de proyectos
  
  💰 Oportunidad de negocio:
  
  La mayoría de empresas todavía:
  ❌ pierde horas en tareas repetitivas
  ❌ depende de empleados para procesos simples
  ❌ crea contenido manualmente
  ❌ no utiliza automatización avanzada
  
  Con herramientas como Codex ahora puedes crear sistemas completos capaces de trabajar prácticamente solos.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  👉 emprendedores
  👉 agencias
  👉 freelancers
  👉 creadores de contenido
  👉 negocios locales
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o necesitas ayuda implementándolo:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  
  👉 Codex 2.0 / OpenAI: https://openai.com/es-ES/codex/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:32 Misión 1: Automatización de noticias IA
  04:18 Misión 2: Creación automática de contenido
  07:14 Misión 3: Crear una App desde 0
  08:54 Misión 4: Generación de vídeos automáticos
  09:58 Misión 5: Publicar una App en Internet
  10:49 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #OpenAI #Codex #ChatGPT #IA #Automatizacion #AgentesIA #IAparaNegocios #Productividad #HerramientasIA #Emprendimiento #NegociosDigitales #AutomatizacionIA #OpenAIcodex #IA2026 #Freelance #MarketingIA #AppsConIA
---
OpenAI has just launched a tool that can literally work inside your computer, creating applications, automating tasks, generating videos, and even publishing projects for you. And the craziest thing is that many people still don't understand its potential. So in this video, we're going to test Codes 2.0 with real-world use cases that you can start using today . And be warned, we'll start off easy, but the last use case feels like a whole agency working on its own. Let's begin. Mission one: automated AI researcher. Imagine waking up to

a summary of the most relevant artificial intelligence news already prepared , without having to search for anything at all. I'll leave the link to download the Codes application below in the description, along with all the promo files I'll be using in this video, which are available on my website, completely free. The interface is very similar to Cloud Code. Here's a brief summary of what we're seeing. We have a permissions section where we can grant full permission so that it doesn't ask for verification of what it's going to do on our computer. On the other hand, down here we've selected where we want it to work,

that is, in the project or the folder where we want it to save the requested data. And as a final option, we have the models. In my case, we'll leave the medium model selected. For this first task, we'll need some plugins, so we'll go to the plugins section. As you can see, here you can connect with different applications. The first

one we'll need is Notion. Once we find it, we click the plus sign and then click install. We accept the permissions, and in just two clicks, Notion will be installed. Now we go to the automations section and click create a new automation. Here we have several options: run it locally or run it in the cloud. In my case, we'll

choose to run it locally. And we'll leave the cloud project selected. For this automation, we'll set it to run weekly, every Sunday at 9:00 AM , and paste our promo code. The goal is for it to find the most relevant artificial intelligence news and prepare a Notion report for us, including the title, summary, source, and business impact, with a modern and clear tone. We tell it to use this tool and type @, which then displays the plugins we have installed. We select Notion.

We'll name the automation "Automatic AI Researcher" and click "Create." Once it's created, we'll run it manually. We access it, and just like in Cloud Code, there 's a "Run" button. We click it, and we see that the Automatic AI Researcher is now working within our cloud project. As you can see, it's circling, loading. On the right, we have a history of the runs that have been executed.

The automation has finished, and it sends us the Notion link it created. If we access it, we'll see the four relevant news stories from this week. Sofban is lowering the loan amount backed by OpenCantropy, which presents a technique for translating cloud reasoning, and Cantropy is expanding computing capacity and raising cloud usage limits. I've done this locally, but we can do it the same way I did in the Cloud Code video ( I'll link to it above). We can do exactly the same thing: also run the Gmail add-on and tell it to add this to a draft in our email, and we'll have a newsletter automatically and completely free. And listen, this is fantastic for local businesses

because you can automate any kind of repetitive task you have. If you have a business or want to implement this for your clients, I'll leave my website link in the description below. Mission two: the content-creating agent. Now we're going to level up because Codes not only researches, it can also automatically create content. To do this, we go back to the homepage and access add-ons. Now we're going to look for the canvas tool.

We tap the plus sign and click install. Once it's installed, we open a new chat, attach our promo, and at the very end, we repeat the previous steps. We select "Use the @ tool," and in this case, we select "Canvas." What I'm asking is that any business needs to create daily posts, and in this case, let's assume our business or client is a bakery. Here, I'm asking it to create five post ideas for this week, generate the text, the initial hook, and the call to action, and automatically design promotional images for a croissant, a cake, cookies, and coffees, saving everything in a folder called " Bakery Content Week." And here, I specify that it should use cream and brown colors—

that is, the trends for 2026. But you can be much more specific and include the brand colors of the business you're working for, or the product you have, so it can create the post accordingly. Once it's configured, we click send. In just a minute, we'd have the result. Here, we have the complete content organized in this link. If we access it, we'll find the MD point, the

2026 visual analysis, the style palettes, and the five weekly post ideas: Monday's post is the artisanal croissant, Tuesday's the seasonal cake, Wednesday's premium cookies, Friday's coffee and pastry, and Sunday's tasting box. They mention that to create the images in Canvas, they need confirmation of the requirements: whether they want to use the Canvas branded kit or generate a cream-brown aesthetic design. We give them permission and tell them to use the cream color scheme. And in just two minutes, we have the generated designs: artisanal croissants, cakes of the week, and different variations of each photo, as is the case here with the premium cookies and coffees. Finally, he asks if we want to modify any of the designs he's generated. Simply by writing the text shown here, he can

create editable canvas designs for us, in case we're not happy with a font or want to add our brand icon—in short, whatever we need. But now comes the most daunting part. Mission three: creating an application from scratch. We're going to ask him to create a real application, a dashboard for a restaurant. To do this, we open a new chat. For permissions, we'll

select automatic review so he doesn't ask for permissions, and we attach our PROM file. Remember that all the PROM files are available on my website, which is linked below in the description . Then we click send, and it's created. He tells us that he's followed the technologies I requested, even connecting to Firebase (the database), and that to install the dependencies, I should run the following commands. He also mentions that the app is running in this local host path. To do this, we access the link provided, and this is the application that

created this dashboard for restaurants. We have reservations, customers, daily revenue and average check, a graph of weekly sales by day, the reservations section to manage them correctly, the best-selling products, such as the mushroom risotto, which has sold €10,000 worth of goods, and the customer record to see the highest check. We also have a suggestion section that indicates the evening service has an 82% occupancy rate, and this is where many businesses will need help because the technology exists, but they don't really know how to use it. So, if you're at that point and you have a business or want to offer this to businesses, I've included my website in the description below. Mission four: create automated videos. Now we're going to do something that seems crazy to me. We go to plugins

and look for the Remote tool, which is for creating videos, and click "install plugin." Once we have it, we open a new chat, attach our promo file, and tell it to use Remoto as its tool, then click send. What I want here is for it to generate a promotional video for our bakery. This is a bit of a general request; I'm not attaching the...

My brand icon, the typography I usually use for my brand, the colors—this is just to give you an idea of ​​what can be created. We should already have the downloaded video here. Let's go and view it. The quality is pretty amazing. It's true that it doesn't have music, but hey, for a Reel and completely free, it's pretty good. And the best

part is that we haven't even gotten to the best section yet. Mission 5co: publishing the actual application online. Okay, now let's see if it can really do the whole job. We're going to do an automatic deployment of the restaurant dashboard application we created. To do this, we'll go to plugins, search for Versel, and install it. Once it's

installed, we'll go to the chat for creating the restaurant application, attach our promo file, and select the @versel tool, then click send. The goal is for it to create a working public URL—a test URL. We should already have the generated link here—the working public URL. If we access that URL, we'll see the dashboard it created earlier. And honestly, this is just the beginning. Every

week, new tools are being released that we never imagined would exist a year ago. And if this content is valuable to you, you know what to do. Hype this video, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the latest AI news. If you want to implement AI in your company or need personalized advice on how to implement it in your current work, my email is below in the description. Remember that my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. You'll find the link below in the description.