---
video_title: "Updates on Cpeak 2026"
video_id: yHtRE_aRFCQ
channel_name: "Cododev"
channel_id: UCEygwyqjUUMj6TOnxMsDjjQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yHtRE_aRFCQ
video_date: 2026-01-02T18:22:06+00:00
video_description: |
  A quick update on Cpeak for 2026, and an introduction to the first production app being developed with Cpeak.
  
  Full Playlist: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCiGw8i6NhvqsA-ZZcChJ0kaHZ3hcIVdY&si=xIOyVIid88WjbcDp
  Follow Cpeak on GitHub: https://github.com/agile8118/cpeak
  
  
  www.cododev.ca
---
Hey everyone, happy new year. In this video, I'm going to give a quick update on C peak for 2026 and see what are our plans for it moving forward. Now, you might remember the framework or you might have just gotten here from the previous video, but I took a break from the CP framework for about a year, but now I'm back on it and we're going to go with it. We're going to go very strongly and our goal is still to end up with one of the best node frameworks on the internet. Something that we're going to use ourselves for our new projects. All

right. So, we're going to have to make it so good that people and other developers would start to prefer CP over other frameworks for their own applications. All right. So, we're going to make it more performance than the other options. Make it in a better package and just keep improving it until we get to that point. All right. So that

is still our goal despite the break. Now I have another very exciting project to announce that we're going to work on alongside CEK. So we're going to develop both in parallel. And this one is going to be something that's not meant to be used by developers only. Meaning that we're going to build a realworld product that anyone can use. So your friends,

your family, people who are not even technical should be able to use this other application. And it will be powered by CEK. And we want to also make that one to be the best in its own field. And by building this other product, we're going to also build CP and learn about some of the things that we got to take care of for our framework that it's very hard for us to realize when we are not working in the real world environment. All right. So this

other product, it's called we you can check it out right now by going into we.pro and it's a URL shortener app and we want to make it to be one of the best. Now, you might be thinking that a URL shortener app is way too simple to make and you can build one over the weekend and we also have thousands of them on the internet. All right. So, so what's the point with this? Now, I want

to tell you that you'd be surprised. You'd be very surprised to learn how complicated it's going to get very quickly because again, our goal is not just to create a URL shortener app. Our goal is to create the best one. And well, that's one heck of a challenge to try to pull off, but we're going to go at it. And well, best is a very subjective term, but what I mean by that is if you pick random people from the street, just a randomized survey, and you show them a dozen different applications, you show them the best URL shunner apps that we have on the internet, including ours, and you demo every single last one of them to that group of people. And if about 20 to 30%

of them pick our application and say that this is their preferred way of doing that process, shortening links and sharing links, we're going to say that we have achieved that best objective. All right. So yeah, we can't please everyone, but if we can please a good portion of the society, that's going to be good enough for us. So we're going to build this from scratch. It will be powered by CP and that's what's so special about it that we're building this product with our own framework. And

this is going to give us a whole lot of opportunities to learn about development in general and also learn how to take care of some things in CP that we otherwise might not realize that we have to take care of if we are in a simulated neat testing environment. All right, because the real world is going to get quite ugly. We're going to have attackers. We're going to do some stress testing with millions of requests coming into our application and yeah, we're going to have a whole lot of fun with this. We're going to see if we can hit that milestone of handling a million requests per second and that's going to be quite expensive but at least we're going to try and set up the infrastructure maybe on Google Cloud or Amazon Web Services and then say that all right at this point we have the autoscaling we have the distributed database system and at this point we just got to pay more to get more servers and resources if we want to handle more requests. All right, because it could

get quite expensive to handle a million requests per second. It could cost us hundreds of dollars per minute. So, we may not be able to go that far, but at least we're going to talk about it and we're going to try. All right, let me give you a quick demo of the application. Right now, it's in development, so don't expect the final product. We don't even have the minimum

viable product. It's just the most basic demo that I can give right now. All right, let me try to go into YouTube and let's try to imagine a case. Let's say that we're sitting around a table. We're a group of friends, maybe 10 people, and one of us, in this case, me, I'm watching a video, and I want to share it with everyone else, right? So, let's say

maybe let me go into here, maybe sports, and then just try to grab a video that we've got, right? So, I want to go right here and it's it's something niche. So, if you try to maybe try to search for it, it would take a little bit amount of time. And here we've got this link. So, I'm going to copy it. And my goal is to

share this video with everyone else around me. All right? And sure, we might have a group chat on WhatsApp, but in a lot of cases, we don't. And if you also try to send it individually to every single person, it could be a little too daunting. Not to mention that you might not have the contact info of that device that a particular person has at that point of time. All right. So, here's

where our application comes into play. So, just go into weird.pro. So, here's what I'm going to do in this demo to share this link with everyone. I'll put that link here. We're not going to have

any junk around this. All right. So, just very clean. All we see here is just one input box and one button that says shorten and that's it. All right. Okay.

So, now I've got this link that's valid for two hours. It's very easy to type out. So, I'm going to now go into weird.pro. I'm going to tell everyone around me to go into.pro

Pro/567 and then everyone is going to be navigated to this video. The process would take only a few seconds. We're only getting three digits. In this case, this is quite clean. 5 6 7. But if I

regenerate, yeah, we're just generating something random. All right. And we're starting with three digits. And then we're going to keep going up. If we exhaust our resources, right? Cuz we can

only have so many for three digits. Then we're going to move on to four, then five. And here we can handle a few thousand ones. And then if we exhaust all of them, we're going to move on to this other type which is valid forever. So we're not going to make them expire after 2 hours. And with this one, we can

handle way more links. All right. Now, if I go into the source code, if you want to grab the source code, just scroll down here and go into its GitHub repository. Okay. And if here I go into my server and I just want to know how many links we can handle. All right. So

here I've already added some comments that for this type the 325 digits we can in total handle 100,000 combinations. All right. So 100,000 different ones. So we can handle up to 100,000 people connecting to our server and trying to shorten links in any given two hours. All right. And after that point we're

going to switch to another type. All right. Okay, now I realize this this is way too confusing right now to look at and there's going to be another video that I'm going to publish where I will dive much deeper into this project. We're going to have two video series on this channel. One of them is going to be for CEK. This is the one that you're

watching right now. And there's going to be a separate video series dedicated to the Weir project. All right. And we're going to develop both at the same time. All right. So they're going to be

developed in parallel. For CP, our main focus is on node. It's quite advanced. So you got to be an advanced node developer if you want to follow along with this video series. And for this other one, this we project. This is

where we're going to cover everything. And it's also quite beginner friendly. That does not mean that it's suitable only for beginners. Quite the contrary. Actually, in a lot of cases, we're going to dive into some very advanced topics because again, we're not going to be dumbing down our solutions. We're trying

to build the best URL turner app and that's it. Okay. So, yeah, sure, we're also doing this educational process, but that is our main goal. We want to make it to be so good, so performance, so secure that for sure, we're going to have to deal with very complicated topics. And we can understand everything. Of course, it would be

complicated, but that just means that instead of understanding it in 10 minutes, it would take us 1 hour, right? So, no big deal. We can still handle it. And that series is going to be way more modular than this CP one. So, because we're going to be talking about everything and by that I mean we will be talking about node, about databases, about Postgress, Reddus, deployment, even react and some front-end stuff and we would even talk about legal stuff, right? So just about anything that goes

along with launching a high quality product. So because we're talking about everything, I want to make that playlist way more modular. So maybe if you only care about the database stuff and you don't even care about Node, you can skip right ahead, only watch those lectures. If you only care about maybe the user experience aspect, you can just go ahead and only watch those lectures, right? So it's going to be super modular. Each

video is going to have chapters so you can easily skip and navigate around. All right, I will be adding prerequisites before each lecture so you are going to be covered. So yeah, for this weird project, I'm inviting just about everyone to follow along with it. So if you care about launching software products, you can follow along with this playlist and you can learn quite a bit even if you don't use note. But definitely a good portion of the playlist is going to be about note. So

you're going to have to skip a huge portion, but that's okay. We would also stick with this minimal mindset that we would not install mpm packages. So we would try our absolute best to just stick with writing code ourselves instead of just installing different packages. So if you go into the source code again and you take a look here for the server, I want to go into the router. So we we've got a fair bit amount of logic here inside of this application. Right now it's it's still

in development. We're probably maybe 10 to 20% done with the progress. So we still have a long way to go. But in terms of the features, we're pretty much there. So all that we want to have is this very simple UI that you can go here into customize. You can go with

different types. You can try to choose something of your own if you'd like. And if you go ahead and create an account and then choose a username, you can also choose another two types. Right? So I want to try to log in. Now this one

doesn't work yet. So the email and password, this is something we're going to handle with CP. So we're going to have to build something like PassportJS from scratch and then handle it. But right now, we can log in with Google. So, I'm going to go ahead and log in pretty quick.

All right, I'm now logged in. I use this account to shorten a few more links. And I've also chosen a few usernames. Now, we're going to keep track of one active username. And then we're going to keep a record of their three oldest usernames.

So, if you go ahead and you shorten link on top of your username, and then you realize that now you're in a professional environment. Maybe you had a funny username and now you want to have something a little more professional to use maybe in your work environment. So, we want to give this option to users to be able to choose another one and then use that. So, switch to that one. And now they don't need to worry about their old links going expired. All right. So, yeah,

we've got a fair bit amount of features here and it's going to get even more complex. We don't have features like the stat right now, but we're going to add them in the future. We have this QR code, but yeah, that's pretty much it, right? So, a fair bit amount of features, but still nothing too crazy, right? The reality is when we try to stress test, when we try to send millions of requests, that's where it's going to get actually quite complicated.

And we would also hire hackers to constantly attack our application and find issues. And as we find them, we're going to fix them. A lot of them would have to do with CEK. Some of them might have to do with the Weir project itself. But that's going to be a lot of fun, an immense amount of opportunities to learn, and yeah, it's going to be quite fascinating. Right. Right. So here I

want to show you the current status of CPI. So if you go into our server, so this is a yarn workspace, but don't worry about it. Again, there's going to be another video on it. But if I go here to index, so here's where we are including it along with some of the functions that we might need, utility functions. And then we're firing it up.

We are here doing something to save our logs. So here, if you go, we're going to have neat logs for just about anything, including the errors. And then here I've got an error handler and also we're even exporting it to do some testing. All right. So CP right now can handle you know a project like this a small size application. And that's pretty much all

that we have here. If you go into the package yeah we got we've got a few things right here. We're going to probably get rid of this express session cookie session and also maybe compression passport and then build them in C peek. All right. So these features are going to be baked into the CP project itself and you just have to include functions like these to get those functionalities. So yeah, we're

going to make it very minimal, but sometimes it's best to use another package. For example, this QR code, we're using it to generate these QR codes. And of course, we're not going to do it from scratch, but but you know, you get the point. And for these cases, we're going to use another package or for connecting to our database, but we still would want to keep it very simple. All right. So we have the Postgress

here, but we're also developing our own mini framework for dealing with a database. Right. So we have we're writing straight SQL in this project and it's yeah, it's going to give us a lot of opportunities to also learn quite a significant amount of things about databases. All right, I want to leave this one right now. Again, I'm going to introduce this project in greater detail later on, but feel free to just play around a little bit. If you want to go

through the code, you could, but please don't try to set it up if you want. All right, I still have not added a section here where you can see how to set it up, but I'll create a video on it. I will also add a guide here so that you can get it set up in no time. But that's it right now about this project. And we're going to now move on with CP. We're

going to be talking about the middleware functions. We've got a quite a bit amount of them here. For example, we're using them here to authenticate with Passport. And we have one here to do authentication. And then another feature that we have here in these routes, we've got these variables that we're going to discuss and CP is also now completely written in Typescript. Right? So there's

going to be more videos coming up to this playlist and this month and the future months. We're going to discuss all of them. Right? It's going to be a whole lot of fun. Right? With this

project because we also now have this realworld project that everyone can use. This is going to make C peak way more fun to work with. All right. We're going to have attackers. We're going to have millions of users and of course we're going to simulate them. But if we do get

also a high traffic, we're not going to get that popular, but I mean we're going to see that in action. We're going to be very transparent and we'll have a huge amount of opportunities to do a whole lot of things with these two projects. All right, so that's a quick update on CP for 2026 and thank you very much and I'll see you in the next one.