---
video_title: "Grok 4 pushes humanity closer to AGI… but there’s a problem"
video_id: 2USUfv7klr8
channel_name: "Fireship"
channel_id: UCsBjURrPoezykLs9EqgamOA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2USUfv7klr8
video_date: 2025-07-11
video_description: |
  Get 3 months of Sentry’s team plan free: https://sentry.io/fireship
  
  Elon Musk has the 'trust me bro' benchmarks to prove that Grok 4 is the world's most powerful AI model. But just how well does it compare against competitors in real life scenarios? And is it still calling itself MechaHitler?
  
  #Grok4 #Grok #elonmusk #coding #tech
  
  💬 Chat with Me on Discord
  
  https://discord.gg/fireship
  
  🔗 Resources
  - https://grok-4-ai.com/
  - https://docs.x.ai/docs/models/grok-4-0709
  
  🔥 Get More Content - Upgrade to PRO
  
  Upgrade at https://fireship.io/pro
  Use code YT25 for 25% off PRO access 
  
  🎨 My Editor Settings
  
  - Atom One Dark 
  - vscode-icons
  - Fira Code Font
  
  🔖 Topics Covered
  - Grok 4 benchmarks
  - Grok 4 Svelte 5 test
  - Grok MechaHitler Controversy
---
Yesterday, after achieving a quote ludicrous rate of progress, Elon Musk released his AI chatbot and large language model, Grock 4, and claims it's the smartest AI in the world along with the Trust Me Bro benchmarks to back it up. It can achieve perfect SAT scores every time and outperforms almost every grad student in every discipline. Vibe coders have been dropping all kinds of crazy demos with it, like this 3D firstperson shooter built in 4 hours. And Elon himself claims it's even better than Cursor. All you have to do is copy and paste your entire codebase into it.

In addition, Super Grock 4 Heavy can run in parallel to solve complex problems while your obsolete monkey brain looks in awe at this beautiful futuristic UI. It all sounds amazing, but there's just one problem. Grock is literally Mecca Hitler. Or at least that's what it's been calling itself recently, while offering unprompted praise to the original emo kid, Adolf H. Yes, the Austrian painter who died in Argentina in 1962. Despite this controversy,

though, Grock appears to have pulled ahead in the race to AGI. In today's video, we'll put it to the ultimate test and find out if XAI just cracked the final solution to artificial intelligence. It is July 11th, 2025, and you're watching the Code Report. Elon Musk might have more haters than anyone else in the world right now. Libs hate him for going full MAGA, while MAGA hates him for accusing Trump of being on the Epstein client list, a list that was on the Attorney General's desk, but now magically never existed. It turns out

this poor guy was just a math teacher with no clients at all. The haters want to see Elon fail, but Gro 4 is too impressive to ignore. If we're to trust these benchmarks, its reasoning capabilities are far ahead of the other top models, most notably on the Arc AGI benchmark. It's not only outperforming other models, but also doing it at a lower cost. And XAI is scaling up very aggressively, like they're even shipping a power plant from overseas because they can't get it done fast enough in the United States. The thing is though,

every model nowadays is cooked to look as good as possible on benchmarks. And the one true test is to have it solve real problems in your own life. You can use Gro 4 for just $30 per month. Or if you're not already broke from OpenAI Pro, Claude Max, and Gemini Ultra, you can use Super Gro 4 Heavy for just $300 per month, a version with higher rate limits and the ability to run multiple agents in parallel. But one problem in my life is building spell 5 apps with runes. So let's see if we can make Gro 4

build a simple to-do app with this tech. I've tried this prompt with every other AI tool out there, but none have been able to satisfy me. When prompted, Grock did a ton of research. It went to the documentation. It went to Reddit, GitHub, and even watched YouTube videos.

And the end result was a full working demo that did use the new runes feature in Spell 5. However, when I looked a little more closely at the code, I noticed it was using some legacy syntax that required some manual debugging. Overall, Grock's coding capability seemed to be on par with the other big models, but it's missing a CLI tool like Claude Code. However, if it's as good as they say it is, why can't it just build its own CLI tool? Well, actually, it can, and that's exactly what this guy did. If we're truly advancing into the

singularity, AI can and should be building all of its own tooling at this point. Pretty cool. But if you're still afraid to use it because of Hitler, you'll be happy to know that Elon said it was manipulated into saying this. Maybe that's true, maybe not. But in general, Grock has far fewer guard rails on offensive speech compared to other mainstream models. And this gives the

end user the ability to steer it in unique ways that some might find offensive. AI is now writing more of our code than ever. But according to a recent Microsoft study, it still sucks at debugging, which is why you should check out Sentry, the sponsor of today's video. They just launched a new AI debugging agent called Seir, which developers claim is actually good and capable of fixing complex issues in one shot. That's because unlike other AI debugging tools, Seir can access all the context that it gets from your codebase, like error data, logs, and stack traces, allowing it to pinpoint the root cause with over 94% accuracy. Using this

context, it automatically debugs the root cause of your issue and opens a pull request with a fix. Try out Seir for free today at century.io/fireship. This has been the code report. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next