---
video_title: "Alibaba is coming for Claude..."
video_id: -w53i6Ae-YM
channel_name: "Fireship"
channel_id: UCsBjURrPoezykLs9EqgamOA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-w53i6Ae-YM
video_date: 2025-07-23
video_description: |
  Try out the awesome new CodeRabbit VS code extension for free https://coderabbit.link/fireship-vscode
  
  Qwen3-Coder just became the first open-weight model to match the programming performance of Claude 4, with a much smaller model size. But is it enough to actually challenge Claude Code?
  
  💬 Chat with Me on Discord
  
  https://discord.gg/fireship
  
  🔥 Get More Content - Upgrade to PRO
  
  Upgrade at https://fireship.io/pro
  Use code YT25 for 25% off PRO access 
  
  🎨 My Editor Settings
  
  - Atom One Dark 
  - vscode-icons
  - Fira Code Font
---
Yesterday, Chinese company Alibaba dropped a brand new openweight long horizon mixture of experts agent coding model named Quen 3 coder. And amazingly, it's the first openweight model that matches the programming performance of Claude 4, the undisputed leader of AI vibe coding tools at the present time. Not only is the Quen 3 coder model open, but they also just released a brand new CLI tool forked from the recently open source Gemini CLI that can take advantage of all the models agentic properties like the ability to run, execute, and test your code from the command line. That's terrifying news for any programmer still left with a job, but mathematicians are also on life support right now because both Google and OpenAI just achieved gold medals in the International Mathematical Olympiad. In today's video, we'll take a look at the latest AI breakthroughs and find out if Quen 3 coder can actually compete with Claude 4. It is July 23rd, 2025,

and you're watching the code report. Just last week, the open model scene got a big upgrade with the Chinese Kimmy K2, but now Quen 3 coder pushes things even further. The model was trained on 7.5 trillion tokens with a 70% code ratio. In other words, it's seen a billion times more code than the average developer with 50 years of experience.

They even use their previous model to clean up noisy training data, the highly meta process where AI basically determines which data to use to train itself. When it comes to the training process, they use something called long horizon reinforcement learning across 20,000 parallel environments. The model actually tries to solve real world problems in real environments where it's executing and testing code. You can think of Quen's training infrastructure like a coding boot camp with 20,000 graduates all working on the same problem simultaneously, except they never get tired, never argue, and never ask, "Is this a breaking change?" And the end result speaks for itself in these benchmarks. Based on this

benchmark, Quen is outperforming Kimmy and GPT4.1 and almost on par with Claude 4, but doing so with a much smaller model size, which is important because the bigger the model, the more electricity and GPUs you need to run it. What's also really impressive about Quen 3 coder is that it has a 256,000 token context window that can stretch up to 1 million tokens. For reference, that's enough to hold the entire codebase of most startups and all of their technical debt. Quen 3 coder is an openweight model, but if you think you're going to run it locally on your laptop, it's time for a reality check. To harness the full

girth of the 480 billion parameter version, you would need tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of GPUs along with a large wallet to pay the electricity bill. Realistically, to try it, you'd want to get an API key from a cloud provider, then hook it up to the new Quen CLI tool, which again is a fork of the Gemini CLI. Overall, this does appear to be a big leap forward for open coding models. But I doubt that it will make much of a dent in Claude's dominance in the coding world. To be Claude, a company needs to release a model that's not only open and inexpensive, but that surpasses Claude's capabilities by a significant margin.

Like OpenAI was recently supposed to release its own Open model, but that's been delayed with the rumor for the delay being that these Chinese models would absolutely crush it. That's just one of many L's taken by OpenAI recently, like Zuck gutting all of their talent. But OpenAI did get a big win a few days ago when they achieved a gold medal in the International Mathematical Olympiad. What's funny though is that they made a dick move by announcing this before the closing ceremonies of the event in order to overshadow Google and the press, who also achieved gold medal level performance. However, that ended up backfiring because it just made OpenAI look desperate. But if you want

to write really good code with AI, you need to check out Code Rabbit, the sponsor of today's video. Their free VS Code extension gives you advanced code reviews right in your editor. And their new fix all with AI feature passes all of Code Rabbit's review context directly to the AI code agent of your choice is so it can make all the changes for you. This saves you from needing to click on each review comment yourself, giving you more time to write even more broken code like a true artisan. Code Rabbit is free to use in the IDE and works seamlessly with VS Code and forks like Cursor and Windsurf. Download it for free with the

link below to try it out. This has been the code Report. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next one.