---
video_title: "Cursor 2.0 is here... 5 things you didn't know it can do"
video_id: HIp8sFB2GGw
channel_name: "Fireship"
channel_id: UCsBjURrPoezykLs9EqgamOA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HIp8sFB2GGw
video_date: 2025-10-30T17:07:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Build better apps with PostHog - https://posthog.com/fireship
  
  Cursor, the IDE of choice for any self-respecting vibe engineer, just released version 2.0.
  
  In today's video, we'll take a first look at 5 new features every developer should know about.
  
  #coding #programming #ai
  
  💬 Chat with Me on Discord
  
  https://discord.gg/fireship
  
  🔗 Resources
  - https://cursor.com/blog/2-0
  
  🔥 Get More Content - Upgrade to PRO
  
  Upgrade at https://fireship.io/pro
  Use code YT25 for 25% off PRO access 
  
  🎨 My Editor Settings
  
  - Atom One Dark 
  - vscode-icons
  - Fira Code Font
  
  🔖 Topics Covered
  - Cursor 2.0 First Look
  - Cursor Composer 1
  - Agent Layout
  - Native Browser
  - Parallel Agents
  - In-editor Bugbot
---
Yesterday, the IDE of choice among Vibe engineers and the king of VS Code forks, Cursor, released version 2.0, and it contains new features that will terrify all of the AI coding doubters, haters, and non-believers out there. >> The streets will ruin the plan of the nonbelievers. >> This video is not sponsored by Cursor, but over the past year, their meteoric rise is impossible not to notice in the programming space. They went from zero to a $9.9 billion company in a matter of

months by simply forking Microsoft's VS Code and duct taping chat GPT to it. But there's a reason Cursor is so popular. It targets the happy, productive middle ground for programmers who know how to code but who simultaneously hate writing code. And Cursor 2.0 pushes this idea even further with five new features you need to know about. It is October 30th,

2025, and you're watching the code report. Like most people, I use AI coding tools like Cursor as a friendly assistant, asking it to generate some boilerplate code here and do some tab completions there. But recently, I met a 12-year-old kid at a birthday party who's making 50K MRR on his side hustle. And he told me I was doing it wrong. He said, "You need to think like a Roman slave driver, whip in hand, heart turned to stone. If you want to get anywhere in

life, you need to be running multiple coding agents in parallel, all pushing, reviewing, and fixing code on the master branch simultaneously, not the woke main branch. I asked him how he does it, and he said, quote, "A cursor is the digital lash I wield to drive these agents ever forward." I couldn't believe what I was hearing from this kid, but then I realized I just made this entire story up in my head. But Cursor has never really been a true AI company. It does have great tab completion AI, but like most startups, it's mostly just a nice UI wrapper on top of foundation models like GPT5 and Claw. Well, not anymore.

They now have a new model called Composer that allegedly approaches the intelligence of the best frontier models while achieving higher speeds, much higher speeds. And that's huge because waiting for slowass GPT5 and Claude to get work done is a huge bottleneck. But I have my doubts about these Trust Me Bro benchmarks. that these are internal closed source benchmarks that don't even compare Claude, GPT5, or Gemini directly. And Composer also doesn't show up on any external benchmarks like LM Marina or SWE bench yet. That's us AF

and the only thing we can do is try it out ourselves like I'm doing here in the new agent view mode and cursor 2, which is a UI update that cleans things up when you're doing chat heavy development. But the craziest feature you need to know about is its git work trees integration. A git work tree is basically just a local copy of your code that won't conflict with your main Git workspace. But what that enables is working with multiple agents simultaneously on the same task. Like here, I'm building a design system for a web app. My client wants a button in

that ugly neo brutalism design. So let's go ahead and implement it with Claude GPT5 and cursor's new composer model in parallel. As you can see here, they all get to work. And as promised, the cursor model is by far the fastest with Claude in second and GPT5 lagging way behind. But what matters more than speed is quality. When we compare them side by

side, they all have a reasonable level of quality. But I think Claude and GPT5 are still a bit better looking than Composer. But let's go ahead and try another UI test by having them generate some buttons in Apple's new liquid ass design. This time when we compare quality, there's a big difference. The claw definitely put forth the most effort with these nice animations, while the result from GPT5 was embarrassingly bad. However, Cursor Composer did a

surprisingly good job. At the very least, it seems like the composer model has some potential. But another awesome feature is the new native browser, and this is an actual productivity gamecher for me because I constantly find the AI doing sloppy work on complex UI features. Now, with the built-in browser, I can easily pinpoint the exact HTML element that sucks and add it directly to the chat. And we also get full Chrome DevTool support here to easily add that stuff to the chat as well. When it comes to Cursor, the only

limit to your potential is not your imagination, it's how much money is in your bank account. But you shouldn't just slop out every new feature from scratch. And that's why you need to know about Post Hog, the sponsor of today's video. It's an all-in-one suite of dev tools that's like a Swiss Army knife for building better products. It gives you product analytics, session replays, feature flags, and other tools to help your team understand how users actually interact with your app. It also comes

with error tracking that's connected to all of your Post Hog tools and user data, which gives you much greater context to debug issues faster and safely roll out fixes. The best part is that Post Hog is super easy to implement thanks to SDKs for web, mobile, and serverside apps. And they have a surprisingly generous no card required free tier, which you can start mooching off of today using the link below. This has been the Code Report. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next one.