---
video_title: "Apple and Google won’t like this..."
video_id: qJle6Bki4Og
channel_name: "Fireship"
channel_id: UCsBjURrPoezykLs9EqgamOA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJle6Bki4Og
video_date: 2025-10-16T17:32:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Install CodeRabbit CLI for free to catch all your AI slop code - https://coderabbit.link/fireship-cli
  
  The Free Software Foundation just gave humanity a final shot at salvation by announcing the Librephone, one of the most ambitious open-source projects of our time. But can this project really topple iOS and Android? Let's find out...
  
  #tech #iOS #Android
  
  💬 Chat with Me on Discord
  
  https://discord.gg/fireship
  
  🔗 Resources
  - https://www.fsf.org/news/librephone-project
  
  🔥 Get More Content - Upgrade to PRO
  
  Upgrade at https://fireship.io/pro
  Use code YT25 for 25% off PRO access 
  
  🎨 My Editor Settings
  
  - Atom One Dark 
  - vscode-icons
  - Fira Code Font
  
  🔖 Topics Covered
  - What is the Librephone?
  - Free Software Foundation
  - Is Android really open-source?
  - Richard Stallman hires Rob Savoye
---
Yesterday, the Free Software Foundation gave humanity a small glimmer of hope for a better future by announcing one of the most ambitious open- source projects of our time, the Libra phone, the Freedom or Liberty Phone. The modern man is a slave to this dark little rectangle. The average person clocks in 6.66 hours of screen time daily. And if you're Gen Z, it goes up to 9 hours, no cap. But those are rookie numbers for

South Africans who grind out 9 hours of screen time daily. By watching this video, you're becoming a statistic and quite literally draining your consciousness to Silicon Valley ad companies like Google and Facebook. It's a problem we should have seen coming when Stanley Kubri and Arthur C. Clark tried to warn us with the Black Cuboid in 1968. But it's too late now. Not only

are we all addicted to the monolith, but with digital IDs rolling out around the world against the will of the people, it'll soon be impossible to put food on your family without a 247 spyware loaded smartphone in your pocket. In today's video, we'll look at the world of open source mobile tech and find out if there's any hope for technological freedom in our future. It is October 16th, 2025, and you're watching the Code Report. Maybe you've never heard of the free software foundation, but virtually every human on planet Earth uses its software daily. But from the GNU tools that power Linux and Android to the GCC compiler and the GPG encryption that secures your emails, the free software foundation's work is quietly running underneath almost every device, server, and app that you touch. It was started

40 years ago by Richard Stallman and yesterday they announced a new initiative called the Libriophone. They've tapped legendary hacker Rob Savois to lead the charge, the guy behind Open Street Map and the guy who made Flash work on Linux before it was cool with Nash. The mission is to replace every closed source bit on your phone with open- source freedom. But you might be saying, "Wait a minute, Android is already an open-source Linux- based operating system." That's true, but only technically. In reality, most of the

software that makes your phone actually work, from the modern firmware to the camera drivers and Google Play services, is all locked down proprietary code. The Libra phone wants to rip out all these blobs and replace them with fully free software. So, your phone isn't just open- source on paper, but free isn't freedom in practice. But if you're already based, you might be using Lineage OS to bypass Google Spyware. Well, apparently Lineage Link's significant proprietary code and FSF board member John Gilmore said, quote, "Rather than accept the sad situation, I looked for collaborators to reverse engineer and replace those proprietary modules with fully free software before at least one modern phone. It's a noble

cause, but reverse engineering all the firmware and binary blobs on a smartphone is a massive undertaking. This was already tried once before with Replicant, an early FSFbacked attempt to create a fully free Android fork. It did work technically, but adoption was almost non-existent. Only a handful of devices were supported and most users just aren't willing to give up basic features like Wi-Fi, cameras, GPS, etc. to run free software. And even if the

Libra phone somehow pulls it off, the Apple Google duopoly is practically unbreakable. These two companies control the hardware, the operating system, the app stores, the payment rails, and have massive lobbying efforts in government. At a time when governments are rolling out digital ID systems, contact tracing, and app-based verification platforms that are tightly integrated into these ecosystems, the mobile ecosystem feels hopelessly locked down. But the Libra phone might be the only thing that can liberate us from this dystopian crony surveillance state while preserving all of the features that we need to maintain massive amounts of screen time daily. That means there's going to be a lot of code reviews. And that's why you need to

know about Code Rabbit, the sponsor of today's video. They just announced a new Codeex integration that allows it to execute Code Rabbit reviews directly in your development workflow. So now you can tell CodeEx to review your latest changes, and the Code Rabbit CLI will surface specific issues on everything from simple styling errors to more complex architectural problems. From there, you can approve the proposed fixes and tell Codeex to apply the changes, or you can just allow the whole thing to happen autonomously in the background until the code can actually pass the review. Code Rabbit CLI is free to use and you can install it using the command on screen or by checking the link below. This has been the code

report. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next